0	I was angry at my brother over an argument we had together.  We á do have a few fights from time to time, and also at times I take á out my anger on him.
3	When they found out that I was absent from school, I had gone to á the girl's secondary school.
5	Last year, when I took the college entrance examinations I á failed the FUVEST. It was for me the most frustrating situation á because I had studied all year long, and only thought about this.
2	Earth crake.
5	When I realized that I was in hospital after a car accident and á that I had a scleral tear in my left eye.
0	I felt angry when I saw on T.V the last slaughter of negroes in á South Africa.
6	When I overtook a car on the mainroad, misjudging the distance of á an oncoming car and this resulted in tooting and flashing from á the other driver (we could have collided), and I had an á acquaintance in the car with me.
2	When I thought the house was on fire at night.
4	When I was sick my husband bought me a piece of cake.
1	When a close friend of mine maintained a relationship with me á till she needed me and broke it off when she did not need me.  á She behaved life a really selfish person.  
6	I was ashamed when I was being introduced to the church á congregation.
3	I was late meeting someone for an appointment.
3	Slept with someone close to my girlfriend and myself.
2	It was a week before the higher level results were announced.  I á had tried and failed many times and this was the last time that á I was taking the exam.  I knew that if i failed again I woulld á have to enter the society.  I imagined things during this period á - I dreamt that I had entered university and it was a nice á experience.  When I thought about the future, an unexplainable á fear rose in me.  I feared being a worker and not having a bright á prospect, I also feared the criticism of my relatives as my á brother had gone to university.  Whenevr I thought of this issue á I could not eat or concentrate, and my heart beat increased.
6	Had a very good friend. We grew apart I found myself running her á down to other friends.
6	Not being able to answer question in a seminar.
4	The day I got to know that I would get a shared dwelling with my á boyfriend.  My parents place was getting a little crowded with á my growing bother wanting a room to himself.  I first felt doubt, á then joy, but also sadness.  The feeling of joy was the á strongest.
3	I have cut loose from my father a few years ago. I know he is á very sad about this.
0	One day I was really angry when all my food was eaten by a dog. á My anger was against my mother because she was careless. She á didn't keep the food in a hidden and proper place.
4	The final marks were to be given in the morning.  I wanted to get á there late because I was very afraid.  When I arrived there, á everybody was very happy and I had also passed.  We had a á wonderful time all day long.
2	When my mother was seriously ill and had to be admitted to the á hospital.
6	When I got my fingers stuck in one of the side holes of the door, á in the tube.
0	Mad at my dad.
2	Hearing a strange noise in the biology building.
5	A boy I look after for the probation service deliberately á offended to provoke a reaction from the police.
1	A few days ago I saw two dandy girls of my age. I disliked their á clothes and their way of doing.
0	When I was insulted by a man.
0	I got into an argument with a photographer for whom I had to pose á twelve times, over  a period of four weeks, before I could get a á snap of mine.  Every time the film was processed my snap did not á come out although the others did.
5	When I heard the news of my grandfather's sudden death.
3	When I overate at lunch.
2	When my 2 year old son climbed up and sat on the 7th floor á balcony with his legs hanging out.  He was holding on tightly to á the upper railing of the balcony but he could have easily lost á his balance when he sat down.
5	When the gear broke on my car.
1	Disgust of drunkers and of blood.
0	When I knew that they would not give me a transfer from one á university to another.  I began to insult the educatioon á authorities and the government, I ended up at the door.
6	At using other people, because of sexual experience that was á using another to the detriment of both. Anxiety that I may have á affected another for the worst.
0	Disagreements with mother.  When I moved from KankaanpSS, she had á promised to help me move but broke her promise because of some á hindrance. 
5	When my grandmother died - at her funeral.
3	Having failed to help with the 5th of March arrangements (Women's á Day), although I had previously promised to take part in the á work.
2	When I was left alone at home one night by my brother.
3	Promising to do a task for a friend and just forgetting about it.
2	I awoke at night and did not remember dreaming about antthing in á particular.  I just felt oppressing fear, it was dark and all the á others were sleeping.
4	I had a quarrel with my fiancT. When he admitted his fault, á everything was allright. It was then for the first time that he á surprised me with coffee and cake and a bunch of flowers.
0	I experience that feeling when I am unsulted without deserving á it or when someone deceives me.
1	One night I saw a man being knocked down by two other men. The á victim was kicked against his head.
1	When I was the South Koreans on the TV.
0	Someone talking about me at my back.
4	When I got my B.Sc degree with first class.
1	I read a book about the situation in South-Africa, about the á terrible violations of human rights. I was disgusted with the á white population.
1	Talking to someone I disliked.
3	Facing the possibility of having a child when it wasn't either á desired or permitted.
2	That day I was alone at home after coming home from school.  I did á not know where everyone else had gone, I kept waiting for them to á come back and nobody came.  It was getting very late and I was á terrified.
1	People talking in an important lecture.
5	My current work load is too much.  The feeling comes back from á time to time.
6	I took my math midterm and got it back the following Wednesday in á class. It was a totally low grade.
4	Can't remember specific event - besides just being moderately á happy until a year or so ago.
2	Walking in the dark by myself.
5	I was sad when I saw that a beautiful girl was not attainable.
2	"I was very startled when, at night at 2.00 am, a boy approached á me and yelled \I fuck you\"", then however he stopped and laughed at á me."""
3	When as a child I stole, from a friend of mine, the ring she had á got in an easter egg.
6	When I failed the ninth standard exam in school.
6	[ No response.]
6	When I was caught stealing money from my father.
4	When I succeded in establishing a contact with a girl (who is now á my girlfriend).
2	I was not prepared for the exam but I wanted to sleep the night á before the exam.
6	The day my fiancee told me that it was bad that I could not write á my mother tongue.
5	Being away from a very close friend, I was away from Finland á for a year as an exchange student.
0	My father began to say incoherant things concerning my brother's and á my own behaviour towards him.  His biased (authoritarian) and á ridiculous point of view made us angry.
0	Sometime back another girl who was in terms with my ex-boyfriend á came to shout at me at twelve midnight. It was because she á thought I was still interested in the boy.
0	One of my friends asked me to go shopping with her, another á friend of hers was also coming along.  During the outing they á kept talking to each other and I felt left out, even when I tried á to talk to them they seemed not to listen to me and did not pay á me much attention.
1	When I heard about the treatment of a friend in jail. Really á inhuman. I never realised that such things also happen in the á Netherlands.
2	When I slipped on a glazed frost road and a car almost ran into á me.
0	I felt angry when repeated pleas to the ticket collector and the á co-passengers in order to make a queue fell on deaf ears.  I have á this feeling whenever someone is not disciplined and methodic in á doing his duty.
2	After listening to ghost stories with my classmates I had to back á alone to the hostel at night.  I had to walk through a long and á quiet road and I was scared of meeting a ghost.
2	I was a passenger in a vehicle when suddenly another vehicle came á from behind to overtake us.  However another one was coming right á in front so the other vehicle changed course and blocked our way á and so we crashed against the side of the road.
1	I feel disgusted when people do not understand me in the right á way, i.e they misunderstand me.
2	Going out alone in the dark.
6	I was very fat, and was ashamed of my body.
3	Not being a good host for a friend from a far away place.
1	I went to the shopping centre to buy something and saw packets of á Kapenta  with maggots in them. Oh !
3	Guilt - because I had not written to my sister for months before á she died.
1	I saw a cripple in rags with small children in Italy.  He was á probably an imposter.
1	When the N.Z. rugby union announced that they would proceed with á a rugby tour of South Africa.
3	I send a word to my boss through my servant telling him that I á would not report for work as I was not feeling well and that the   á doctor had refused to give me sick leave.  My intention was á actually to go out of Lusaka for a week-end.  I left the same day á and the following morning my boss found me in Mongu.  I felt á guilty when asked to explain things on my return.
0	Anger I felt when my boyfriend told me he didn't mind breaking it á off with me, i.e. each of us to take his own road. Because until á that moment, he deliberately restricted our dates. The motives á were brought to my knowledge later.
6	Being caught in changing the truth (lying).
6	We were at a party, this guy I liked and me.  I really loved him á and gathered enough courage to ask him to kiss me.  He did not do á it but instead asked me what I would like for my birthday.  I á told him that I would like a kiss more than anything else but he á excused himself and said that it was impossible.  I really felt á embarassed.
3	A friend of mine was drunk and having an argument on the street á with a woman, appparently his girlfriend.  I was walking on the á other side of the street and thought that I was not supposed to á interfere.  Later I heard that he had shot himself that evening.
6	I was in my room, I just heard that my Uncle had been caught in á somebody's house with somebody's wife. He had to appear in court. á I went to see what would happen to him.
2	My grandmother several times has been struck by cerebral á hemorrhages. Until now she recovered well each time, but there is á always the threat to loose her.
3	When I nearly got my fiancee pregnant.
2	When I was chased by a big dog near my house.
6	Falling over.
2	At night when I was coming from Lingadzi Inn I heard a hyena á crying in the Lingadzi jungle. I was alone.
6	Swearing in public.
2	Once at midnight, I was working alone at office and the phone á suddenly rang.
5	I lost my grandfather whom I loved very much.  I had not known á that he had been ill for a very time, when I received this á message he was already dead.
1	[ Never experienced.]
0	My anger is with men, their inability to be human (not all men).
1	On a trip abroad, a lady-like member of our group turned out to á be an alcoholic.  She spoilt many days of my holidays because of á her behaviour and paranoia.
2	I was sitting on an electric swing, suddenly the machine went á out of order while I was still in the upward position.
2	I was on my way home when suddenly Gule Wamkulu came from the á bush and blocked the road. I was in fear and didn't know what to á do.
2	I was driving on to a busy freeway during rush hour and it was á slightly raining. A diesel truck was coming very close behind me á and I was close behind a pick-up. I changed lanes and barely hit á the truck and ran a Honda of the road. I was scared to death to á go back and see if I caused him to crash.
2	Fear overwhelmed me when right against the car I was in I saw á another one, as if out of control of the driver.
4	When my boyfriend and I went out for a dinner and subsequently á went to his family. We had a very nice evening.
2	When I was on holiday, walking back to where I was staying, at á night, and two men started closely following me. There was nobody á around that I could run to.
5	I could not meet my love, after having waited for a month, due to á illness.
2	My mother had fallen down from a ladder when she had been á gathering cherries. Her back was hurt. Just when I arrived, I saw á people of the life-saving service giving her medical care.
0	I was subject to false accusations, and got very angry.
0	A person I trusted a lot gave me many false explanations to á justify a wrong action.
2	Years ago, on my way to school by the forest path I came across á an exhibitionist.
3	Some of my friends had an argument.  I had earlier phoned one á of them and that may have influenced him to argue.
1	I had joined a youth group that observed the affairs of our á community and so I had many opportunities to contact the á government and the committee members of the district board (a á local executive structure).  We always tried to consult and á discuss with them, but we found that such people did not á understand community affairs and they even dampened our á enthusiasm in local affairs.  I did not understand why they had á decided to work as community leaders.
3	When I was young, I stole some money from my mother's purse. It á wasn't very much, but I can remember when she found it gone I á felt very guilty.
1	Saw my class leader acting like a God when he chose people to go á to your English lectures.
0	A friend came to visit me late one night. He promised to stay á only a quarter of an hour, but he stayed 5 hours !! He didn't á leave and I was very angry.
4	On a sailing boat at night, under a full moon, listening to Pink á Floyd, drinking good wine, with good company, the boat being á steered by autopilot, and a full eclipse of the moon.
2	[ Uncertainty about my own abilities in an exam.]
0	I always get angry when somebody deceives me, or tries to conceal á his lie skilfully and this offends me even more.
4	When I met a very close friend of mine after one year of á separation.
6	Fooling around with this guy I did not know.
0	I was annoyed this particular day as it seemad that the odds were á not in my favour.  My grandfather added fuel to the fire, when I  á had an important appointment so I unleashed my anger on him.
2	"Once, late at night, I was biking home and overtook a man. He á said to me \Hello darling\"" I was terrified and imagined the á wildest scenes."""
6	I was ashamed at myself when I saw that the other boys and girls   á of my age earn a lot of money by doing very good and hard work. 
1	When I boarded Yanu Yanu bus I sat near a man who was smoking á tobacco.
2	A car came very close to hitting me whilst I was crossing the á street.
5	China can not even give you good sound systems for an open á lecture.
1	It was when I drunk urine during my childhood thinking it was á water. My friend had urinated in the tin.
3	I could not take care of my mother when she was admitted to a hospital  á for surgery, I continued my studies as I could not get leave.
1	A colleague and I were sitting on a bench next to an old man in a á shopping centre. the old man coughed and spluttered somewhat, á then with his fingers removed the resultant phlegm and mucous á from his mouth, and transferred it onto the armrest of the á bench.
2	I got lost in a foreign town. I did not know the language of that á country and it took me hours to meet my friends again.
6	When I was young I was playing football near my parent's house á and while playing I fell on the ground. At first I thought I was á not seen by anybody, but when my mother laughed I felt very á ashamed.
6	Quite recently I realized that I had had some erroneous views á about life. For instance, I had always lived for other people, á had forgotten my own person and suppressed my own feelings. I was á ashamed because I had not been concious of that until I had a á conversation about it with a person.
2	The first day that I was close to a dead body, in my third year á at UNZA, school of medicine.
4	My neighbour was not able to set his car in motion because it had á snowed heavily. I helped him - he was thankful and invited me.
3	While intoxicated I damaged my sister's car in a minor way and á someone elses in a minor way.
6	I am chosen for the English lectures instead of my good friend á and people told me that girls are more likely to be chosen.
5	After having been ill, when I was coming back to the hostel, I á felt very sad leaving home.
0	Being treated unfairly and being hurt by someone I love.
1	 I was at a friend's place for lunch and she fell ill and á vomited.
6	When I was a child I played my mother a nasty trick to make her á feel hurt.
1	Finding out that my best friend was deceiving me.
1	I was in the cafeteria at the university and a class-mate told me á that a friend of hers had had all her teeth taken out because of á an infection caused by her eating a rat's nail in her hamburger.
3	When my husband discovered I was having an affair with another á man.
3	I came across a blind man sitting in one of the corridors and á asking for money, though I had some money I did not give him á anything.
1	When I saw a documentary film about World War II (about Hitler á and his adepts).
1	In a film there was a scene in which a rat was sliding on a bed, á leaving a trace of blood behind, finally it entered the mouth of á one of the actors.
0	When a little brother of mine damaged a cassette.
0	I once caught a letter in my girlfriend's handbag from a certain á man. I felt anger.
5	When my parents separated temporarily and I was left behind with á my father.  As I loved my mother I wanted to go with her.
1	One of these people who sell meat in town used a knife to stab á his friend and later carried on using the same knife to cut meat.
6	When I swindled money out of someone.
2	I was going to knock down a pedestrian with my car.
4	When I met my girlfriend - I had not counted on that.
6	My love proposal was turned down by a lady I really loved.
3	[ The day I have not worked (academic) hard enough.]
4	My father had an operation which lasted for hours.  We were all á very worried but it was successful.
5	Watching an old lady running up the street to catch her bus and á miss it, it reminded me of my own mother and how dreadful it á would be to be her in the same situation.
1	Someone told me a story of Amnesty International: a boy was á killed and his head was put in the litter of his girlfriend. It á looked as if she was pregnant, then she died. It is disgusting, I á can hardly write it down.
3	When I was taking the 11th standard exam, my friend who was sitting á behind me asked me for some answers.  The teacher looked at us á just then and scolded both of us.  Everyone started looking at us á and I felt very guilty.
1	When I tried to explain to my child as to why there were á magazines wiith naked girls on them at the kiosk.
1	When I witnessed an accident.
0	A colleague asked me to study with her. I could not explain á things as perfectly as she had expected. So she reacted in an á aggressive manner.
2	My brother had bowel obstruction, having heard that he was going á for surgery, I was afraid he might not come back to life after á hearing of the General Anaesthesia.
2	I went to visit a friend in hospital.  He was going to be á operated the next day.  I was afraid that they would not let me á in and I did not know what his reaction would be on seeing me.
1	I feel disgust when hearing or seeing other people being treated á inhumanely. For example torturing in chili.
2	"I am a \cantor\"" - I sing psalms in church. Several weeks ago I á had to sing too, but the organist did not tell me in time. As I á did not know the psalm, I was afraid and said that I could not á sing."""
0	When, late at night, I discovered that they had stolen my bike.
6	My boat didn't win a race which we were favored to win.
6	I cannot remember a situation in which I felt ashamed. I was á eating with some people and a little boy I took care of. I warned á him often not to knock down his glass of mild. When I took á out his chair I knocked down my own glass.
6	When I had come home drunk the day after a party, I felt very á ashamed in front of my parents.
6	I cried for 3 hours because I felt very miserable. Then I called á my boyfriend and he said lovely things to me. After this feeling á disappeared I felt ashamed.
5	I was watching T.V with my parents and some pornographic scenes á came on, I felt uncomfortable and tried to distract my parents á attention by talking to them.
3	Not noticing my roommates quietness or a sign of discomfort.
4	My girlfriend gave me some feed-back and I understood that it á meant that our relationship was about to turn even closer.
0	I was neglected undeservedly.
1	I found some worms in the food and I had obviously eaten some.
4	At a success of mine, at a real achievement.
6	Being with a close friend, in the city, who was involved at the á present point in time in outrageous activity.
0	"When my flatmate put me down because she \thought\"" she was better á than me, or she felt she was."""
0	The juniors in our dormitory at school started to complain and á make a lot of noise about the duties assigned to them by the á prefect who was my class-mate and was very cool and dull.
4	When I won a trip to Greece in a competition.
2	I experienced fear when I was not prepared for the final year á degree exams.
2	My brother and I were driving to Brisbane when he drove back onto á the road, perhaps cutting off another car but not noticeable - á this driver did his best to drive us off the road for about 1/2 á an hour.
4	When I felt that an exam, which I had feared, was an easy one and á went well.
3	When I was parking my car I was not cautious and bumped into á another car. I caused considerable damage. The driver of the á other car was very angry and I let him insult me because I felt á guilty.
6	In class I had to say something aloud and people reacted  by á laughing.
3	Not finishing homework in time.
2	No really strong such emotion. Just falling off to sleep when I á caught sight of a 5 cm diameter spider crawling onto the pillow á beside me.
3	When my mother scolded me and I argued with her.
5	When I understood that my marriage was falling apart, and we á decided to be legally separated.
2	A terrible fight that I provoked with my friend.
3	One day when I was working, I went out for dinner with friends á without my parents knowledge and I only came home at 2300 hours.
6	Doing poorly on an exam that I thought I should do well.
0	This also happened when I was very small.  I was beaten up by my  á mother for no fault of mine, I had just beaten up my younger á brother for what I thought was his fault.  I was very angry with á my mother.
0	My friend half-teasingly called me a bad nickname.  I felt á insulted and kicked his hip in anger.  I was stable later and did á not feel angry at him.  In fact I was afraid that the other á friends who were with us would think that I was an intolerant á person.  However I could not apologize, so I pretended that á nothing had happened and smiled when I left.  My friend did not á say anything but just watched me leave.
3	My girlfriend's results in school had become worse because I á prevented her from learning (we often went out etc.).
4	When I got the loan for my studies.
4	I felt happy when I learnt that I had qualified for the grade á eight.
6	I can not think of any incident when I have felt very ashamed.  á There are small incidents that I am ashamed of, for instance, á not sending money to the children in Ethiopia.
1	When reading a newspaper story of a man who had committed á incestuous acts on his two-year old child - the thought that á anyone could do such a thing is abhorrent to me.
4	When I entered University.
0	My father promised me a bicycle for my birthday. Just before my á birthday he forgot he promised this to me.
2	When my exboyfriend threw me around the dorms because I was á talking on the phone to another guy of whom he was jealous, á after we had an argument in which I thought we broke up.
4	Time had struck 8 o'clock when I heard from the radio that I had á been selected to Robert Blake Secondary School for Form I. I was á very happy for the selection. My parents and I were very happy á and full of joy.
1	Somebody went around spreading news that I like people with á money.
5	When I received the news that my beloved grandmother had died.  I á was at the boarding school and was only 13 years old.
3	One day while we were strolling along the road one of my á friends suggested that we go and watch a blue film.  I was á curious so I went along but I felt quite guilty later.
2	This was when I was being followed home every day from the campus, á by a stranger.  He would follow me to the campus and then sit á outside my class.  If I was not there he would ask my friends as á to where I was.  He was a dark, ominous looking person and I was á terrified of him as I did not know his intentions.  I reported á him to the security officer, who turned him over to the police.  á I was even more petrified then.
5	A person I really like left for overseas for a few months, I had á hoped to go out with her soon.
5	I was all of the sudden sad when I heard that my cousin who á usually paid school fees had passed away after a very short á illness.
1	At a party where the boys were telling revolting stories about á the girls they'd been with.
6	When I get an exam back with a grade that I did not desire. Then á I get mad at myself and say that I could have done better.
2	When a drunkard barged into a room where my friend and I had run á in order to get away from him.  We were all alone and all I could á see was this hand coming towards me.
1	The first time I saw a pornographic film, all that in practice is á so beautiful but on the screen appered as something mechanical, á irrational, disgusting and dehumanizing.
0	When a boy tried to fool me so he would be OK trying to show me á that he is a gook boy.
0	When my dress and a few other things were stolen from my á wardrobe.
2	[ I have not felt this emotion yet.]
5	My best friend got married and left her home-town to go and live á in Poona.  After her wedding I felt sad.
0	When my kid brother broke my reading spectacles.
6	When I did not speak the truth.
6	When I was 10 years old I stained our bench with a fountain-pen, á I tried to twin the cushions, but then there were colour nuances. á Then my mother catched me, she saw it and became very angry.
0	At school when I had a shouting argument with a friend over my á ability to carry out a particular duty in the correct way without á harming her.
0	When my father did not get back from Chipata on time, he was thus á holding back progress as everything depended on him.  I felt á angry over his actions.
2	When I was first exposed to the dead bodies, for dissecting        á purposes at the school of medicine.
3	I felt guilty because of the pain I caused to a very close á friend. But over the feeling of guilt, my conviction of being á right dominated.
5	My child, unexpectedly started acting in a restless and á disturbing way at school.  In addition his performance at school á weakened.
6	Shame I feel when I am not properly dressed.
3	I accused my husband of being late deliberately when he came to á pick me up from work.
1	I saw a drunk man tottering behind his wife and insulting her á awfully.
4	As an evening class teacher I got positive feedback.  When the á atmosphere is good and a kind of relaxed understanding exists.
1	I was returning from the Universtity at night when I was accosted á by a boy who molested me, passing his hands on my body.
4	A couple of years ago during the summer holiday, I was fishing at á a lake with my husband.  Suddenly it started raining while the á sun was still shining. I experienced a feeling of joy, happiness á and fulfillment.  the whole nature was full of music.
2	Not included on questionnaire.
1	When I was a young teenager (14)  my brother-in-law to be had á made heavy advances to me.  I did not understand very well what á it was all about but I reacted strongly and the feelings are á still there.
5	Losing a boyfriend for the second time to my friend. He fell in á love with her. The same thing happened a few months earlier with á another boyfriend.
1	When my oldest sister discovered that her boyfriend had another á girl.
1	"Some time ago a man tried to teach me something. \Tried\"" because á it is very difficult to teach somebody when you yourself are not á competent and cultured."""
0	When my room-mates were watching video-tapes and prevented me á from watching the news.  The first feeling I had was that I was á being treated unfairly and then came the feeling of anger.
0	Unjust accusations directed at me and my way of acting, by á someone close to me.  
2	One night going downstairs, and hearing a strong stirring of á brances, which was not the wind.
3	Telling a lie to wife over phone about what I had been working á at.
6	When I stole a book in class and the teacher caught me, the rest á of the class laughed at my attempt.
4	I thought that I had failed an examination, but when I was á informed about the mark, I saw that I had passed it.
5	A friend of mine was hospitalized after having been diagnosed as á having typhoid, he had to forgo his exams and also his ambition á of doing a dissertation at the M.A level.  It was a very sad á event for me and I felt very sorry for him so I volunteered to á stay with him in the hospital.
1	I found a big, black spider near a bag of food.
6	[ Sometimes I have by accident said to another person something á in which it is easy to read a negative attitude.]
3	When in the initial interview for the recruiting, I don't know why, á I accepted to do the test for army.
5	My friend not allowed to go to the English lectures.
5	When my boyfriend took me to his father's grave.
4	When I went to visit a friend in the hospital. She had to undergo á an operation for rupture. I was glad to hear that the operation á succeeded and that she was relieved of her pain.
6	Insulted by classmate in public.
5	I got separated from the man I loved.
0	Saw my unfair report.
3	I promised my mother to come home on her birthday, but at last I á was prevented. Nevertheless it would have been possible to go but á I did not.
0	[ An unfair punishment.]
3	When I complained about a colleague to the manager and he told á her that someone had complained; this colleague came to me á believing that I liked her.
0	Same situation as before - having my car stolen.
3	When I have forgotten to warn somebody for something, or when I á have forgotten to bring something I have been asked for.
3	When I did not give back a text book to a friend in time.
1	Our boarder burping after meals !
1	When opened a box of biscuits and found worms inside.
1	A drunk man attacked his wife and wanted to humiliate her by á insulting her. Then he turned violent and started to beat her in á front of her child. She left it happen without saying a word in á order not to make things worse. I watched the scene and tried to á calm the man, but without success. Just because he was stronger á we had to comply. From that day I detested him.
2	One evening my father told me to go into the cellar and get him a á beer. I was terribly frightened at the idea of a man sitting in á the cellar and assaulting me. For my defence I took an empty á bottle with me.
2	Being alone at night.
1	Some boys boasting about their ability to tell dirty jokes.
2	One day during our clinical practices, we had a very ill patient. á Unfortunately the patient passed away. I had seen him dying and á it was the first experience. During the night I became afraid á fearing the dead body.
0	I am currently taking CS 50P. I had to finish a couple of á assignments but I was hindered because I could not get a passing á score on my program.
4	When I asked my girlfriend to marry me.
1	When I found out that the seat in the coach that I had booked had á been sold to somebody else.
3	I saved up money for a good purpose. As I also have to organise a á party I am afraid there will rest only a little money for the á good purpose I feel guilty about this.
5	My mother was working with a knife and we were all laughing á heartily.  She was not able to control the knife and stuck it á deep into her hand.
1	I had a friend who was very kind to me.  I tried my best to like á him and understand him but when I was with him I could not help á rejecting, criticizing and blaming him.  I wanted to get away á from him as soon as possible.
5	When my uncle died.
2	When I was at home alone, I felt a super-natural force, dangerous á for me and the people close to me.
6	I played in a stage play. Suddenly, in front of 200 people, I á could not remember the words I had to say.
3	I had asked the Salvation Army to take away a piece of furniture á of mine, but I forgot to cancel the agreement (a friend of mine á took it) and I thereby caused the Salvation Army people some á unnecessary work.
3	I was travelling in a bus from school going home for holiday. In á the bus unfortunately I stepped on a bag in which there were á delicate things.
4	When I was finally able to return to a job that I enjoyed doing á after several months absence (I was not needed during this time).
2	While paddling in the river during a storm.  I feared drowning.
0	When I was insulted by a fellow student.
0	I felt angry when I heard that my sister had failed the á Examinations which we hoped she was going to pass with á distinctions.
1	The curriculum of the year !   The English course was very heavy. á  I had not prepared and the teacher asked several questions á during class.  The students were not ready to answer the á questions and the teacher was frustated.
3	My brother wanted money but I refused to give it to him, two days á later he stole it from my father.
2	I woke up in the middle of the night of a nightmare, I was alone, á it was very quiet and very dark.
1	I heard a broadcasting programme about parapsychology. The people á in this programme used very difficult words which I couldn't á understand. They acted exaggerated without showing any feeling.
4	In the underground's escalator, a youngish bum asked me for á money.  Although I did not give him anything, the fellow told me á that I was really good-looking.  A man who was in front of me á also turned to look at me.
6	I was making very strong statements about infidelity in couples. á Then I discovered that one of my best friends, who had just been through á a very sad case of mutual infidelity, was listening.
1	One evening when a boy who was drunk made a pass at me by trying á to kiss me.
2	I was a passenger in a jumbo-jet which was accelerating down the á runway and almost at the point of take-off, when the pilot á suddenly braked and put the engines into reverse thrust, in an á obviously urgent attempt to stop the aircraft. The hostesses show á signs of concern and my first thought was that something was on á the runway in our path and that we were in danger of hitting it.
6	I am ashamed when I am not ready for my seminar in internal á diseases, simply because the assistant professor is a person who á deserves high respect.
6	When my father found me in bed with a girl, we were deep in actioon á when he entered the room.
0	Someone played a trick on me.
0	I was angry when I watched a ski-race. All the Austrian skiers á dropped out.
4	Scoring a goal in football match.
2	Taking a trip to crocokile country I fell out of the boat and was á motivated by fear of being eaten to perform great swimming feats.
0	I was angry this morning when I missed the train to university.
3	In a situation with my girlfriend I took a decision.  Later when á I thought about it, I realized that it was an erroneous decision.
1	One day my friend told me that she had heard that I was moving á about with her boyfriend. I was disgusted with the news.
5	When my mother left for Kenya.
2	As a passenger in a vehicle travelling from the steep side of á Arthur's Pass in the middle of a sleet-storm, icy roads, sheer á chasms to one side, sheer face to the other.
1	When I worked at the life-saving sevice and saw the first exitus.
4	Felt joy a few years ago when I was away on holiday. And sat very á close to my best friend looking straight into the eyes.
5	After some friends had come to see me. They had stayed for á several days and we had got on very well. When they had left, I á had a feeling of emptyness.
3	I was looking after a child and she fell down because I was not á paying her much attention.  One side of her face got bruised.
6	I had this feeling before my graduation and never dared to speak á to my relatives and  friends.  Because of this feeling I would á avoid situations, however I do not know the reason for this.
3	I felt guilty when I couldn't help a person.
4	"When my father managed to begin a \new life\"" after the divorce á from my mother; resulting in a new little sister for me."""
3	When I had broken a piece of glass of the refrigerator by putting á a hot pan in it.
3	I broke my friend's badminton racket and she kept quiet about it.
4	I thought that someone was angry with me but, by hindsight, that á didn't appear to be the case, he even liked me.
4	"When I was complimented and called \delightful\""."""
6	Sincerely I'm a very timid guy and so even in very simple á situations sometimes I am ashamed.
4	My old boyfriend - yes the same one - asked me out. We had a good á time. Then he asked me out the following week. He actually took á interest.
5	When I became conscious that men don't wnat anything they don't á have a goal. They have: sex, but this isn't important.
2	"I broke my knee when I was skiing over \Yastrebetz\"" (a racing á track in a Bulgarian winter resort)."""
3	Friend's fiancT left her for me.
3	Forgot to turn up on prescribed day for jury service.
3	Little contact with my father before he died.
5	When I failed the grade seven examination.
6	I was ashamed with my biology lecturer when he asked me a á question and I could not answer it.
4	"When my special friend said \I love you\"" for the first time."""
2	I experienced it once when we were on a drive. Our car passed by á the one comming from the opposite direction at an incredibly á small distance.
4	When I heard that I had been selected fot the first year at the á university of Zambia.  This was after my form five at Chikola á secondary school.
1	I felt disgusted when a fellow student asked me to marry him.  I á had not expected this from him as he was a mere friend.
2	I was river rafting in Nev. and our boat tipped over and I was á sucked under in to some rocks and got stuck and all I could think á was that I was going to die. And it was so quiet under the water á it seemed like no one would care or remember.
3	A few days back a friend of mine had asked me to call on him on á Sunday.  I had accepted it but later did not go for no specific   á reason.  I just slept in my room.  The next day this friend called  á me up and told me that he had been expecting me the day before and á his wife had prepared a very good lunch for me, which had gone á waste.  I felt very bad about this incident and it has been á growing in my heart ever since.
2	When there is danger nearby.
4	Receiving a letter form a girl that means a lot to me á emotionally.
2	Before I had a tooth pulled out.  I was very upset and ill.
0	Made mistakes in exam.
0	"A friend got angry and drove \like a lunatic\"" with me and others á in his car. I was angry about his dangerous driving."""
0	Once in my work it happened a fight between the person in charge and me. I á got so angry and spoke out everything I felt at the moment.
4	I received a grade above average on a midterm (chemistry) and I á expected onevery below average.
3	Gave the wrong meal tickets to other people (my classmate).
3	When I was fined for speeding.
4	I worked at a lawyer's office during Summer and I got a very á good reference from him.
1	When one of my friends started misbehaving.
0	The breakup of a relationship. After the event I was upset/sad á then angry maybe 2/3 weeks later.
2	I'm afraid of driving on the special seat of a mororcycle, mainly á with certain colleagues who by exces of self-confidence drive á beyond limits or measure in the traffic and the main victim is á always the person who sits behind the driver.
2	When two of my children were critically ill with measles.
2	Afraid I wouldn't catch the train when I was going to see my á sweetheart.
6	I was severely reprimanded for a trivial offence in front of á members of my peer group while still at school.
2	When I had gone to a school picnic and was left behind in the á forest.
6	I made a comment that at the moment didn't fit.
3	Failed to do what I had promised.
3	I had undertaken to help my sister for her class work but some á unexpected circumstances prevented me from doing that.
2	Before I went to the urologist's I was afraid for several á reasons: because it was for the first time, because the medical á check-up might be painful, because of the uncertainty and because á someone had informed me about it.
2	I was walking home from a place on southside and I live on á Northside and I was followed. I headed my most direct route.
3	[ No description.]
4	When my boyfriend and I made up.
6	I had to meet a girlfriend to go out for a drink and she arrived á with her aunt, to whom I was introduced.  Then the aunt left.
6	When my mother caught me masturbating.
3	The time I was at secondary school during the holiday I appeared á to my father while heavily drunk and I talked nonsense like in á some sort of carefree.
4	When I hooked a girl in Kitwe.  She was very beautiful for my á standards, a rare bird of this kind accepted me as a boyfriend.
6	That was what I felt when I told my first lie and then was á cought.
1	NO RESPONSE.
6	I insulted a couple of good friends of mine and even tried to hit á them when I was drunk.  The next day, I was ashamed of course.
1	I feel disgusted at my cousin, who is bad-mannered, does not know á how to behave and talk to others, he does not respect elders and á lies all the time.
3	I am not doing what I should with this questionnaire.
5	I had taken the responsibility to do something and I had á prepared for it.  However I failed because of my timidity.  After á three attempts I still could not adapt to the atmosphere and á failed as before.  I felt imcompetent and felt that the others á would think that I had not prepared for it.
1	I was looking after a dying patient at work one night, a young á woman, my colleague was talking to her relatives and .... to á offer them any support emotionally, physically and then sent them á down to the coffee shop to have a dinner rather than offering the á facilities available for their use cause it involved her having á to do some work. Seeing them again I felt disgusted at her á attitude.
5	We had to take our cat to the vet for mercy killing (an á injection).
2	I felt afraid just before receiving the question paper of the á part II exam.
5	The death of my father, even though we had not been very close to á each other.
2	When I first came to the UNZA I did not know the kind of people I á would find here and the kind of behaviour they would have towards á me.
4	Every year during carnival I am very joyful I have an intense á feeling of happiness then.
5	When one's studies seem hopelessly difficult and uninteresting.  
6	When harassed by this boy - it was sexual (refer to GUILT).
6	I woke up at the house of someone I knew, not remembering very á much about what had been said or done during the party on the á previous night.
1	When I read about or think about environmental pollution, the á armor race, starvation, etc. Then one realizes that mankind is á bad, most important is power and money, at the cost of nature and á mankind.
6	This morning I spent a lot of time on my toilet and missed the á train to the university.  My mother told me that I spent more á time than a woman on my toilet.  I felt a mixed emotion of shame á and anger.
2	The day I was nearly stabbed to death by ruffians who wanted to á take my money.  I refused to give them any money and they started á running after me, I ran into somebody else's house to save á myself.
2	When I walk through streets late at night. This is because I and á my friends were attacked one night without any reason for it.
0	With self at losing an important game that I should have won.
1	A class-mate answered (accidentally) the call of nature in the á class during a tough mathematics examination.
1	When I was talking to a person who is a hypocrite, I felt á disgusted at his reaction.
0	My classmate used her personal relations to get a seat for a á subject that I wanted also.  I had taken the pains to help him á apply and I did not get selected.  I did not like this as he had á not told me the facts earlier, he need not have lied to me.
1	On seeing a scene of an accident in a magazine.
6	When I was young I was told to to the shop to buy a dozen eggs.  á I went and asked for one egg and the people in the shop laughed á at me and so did my family when I told them what had happened.
0	At one of my close friends saying she didn't like the way I am á nice to people I don't know, or who have been nasty to me.
1	My roommate messing up our room.
5	I have been thinking of changing my major for a few months.  My á original major was Chinese language and it blocks my way.  I have á to face many problems at the sametime and I do not know what is á real and virtuous.  I do not know if I am not interested in á Chinese or if there are other factors which make me sad.  I am á not very clear on what I can do for the study of Communication á and Journalism.  I am not clear about what I can do.  What are á the limitations ?   I hesitate but I feel more adjusted now.
2	"Once sitting in the cinema, I became very anxious (watching a á \cold\"" film). I do not know the reason."""
5	When a close friend of mine who was with me in first year could á not make it to the second year.
0	I faced this feeling when I realized I wasn't admitted to the á institute in the first classifying, in spite of the high mark I á had got at the entrance examination.á 
4	When I got a message that I was employed as a nurse at a á kindergarten.
4	For the first time in my life telling someone I loved them.
0	When a girl left me.
6	When I hadn't studied for an exam, so I pretended to be sick so I á wouldn't have to go to school. I lied to my mother - she realized á I had been lying when she got home from work and found that I had á been over to a friend's place.
3	When my aunt took her own life, I felt guity for not á understanding that she needed support.
3	When I insulted an elderly person for no reason.
2	I feared that I would not be able to hand in the book-report on á time as I had started working very late.  The book was difficult á to read and my teacher did not accept my work as it was handed in á late.
4	I was in a restaurant with my boyfriend when I saw my best female á friend after not seeing her for two weeks.  We rejoyced, hugged á and had a long talk.
0	This situation keeps occurring - when my little sister disagrees á with me or vice-versa. We have very similar temperaments and I á always end up feeling angry at her and myself for fighting so á much over unimportant trivial matters.
6	This is an event I will never forget.  I am considered a good á mimic.  This particular day we were waiting for a professor á to take her class.  This  professor had a peculiar accent and a á very horrible way of lecturing and to top it all we had this á class at the fag end of the day.  So this particular day I got á into my element and started imitating the professor, and the á professor entered the class right in the middle of it .  I was á unaware of her presence, some of my friends tried to warn me but á it was of no avail as I was too engrossed in mimicing.  Then I á suddenly noticed the silence and turned around to see her á entering the class.  I do not know till today if she actually saw á what I had been doing or she had completely ignored it.  Through  á out that lecture I died of shame.  All the more shameful was the á fact that she gave me a character certificate. 
4	When my boyfriend last told me he loved me after I gave him an á impulsive kiss.
0	"I was in \Hainburg\"" in December and I was angry about the á politicians and the police."""
3	We always made a lot of noise during a certain lecture.  This may á have been because we did not respect the lecturer. Finaly, the á lecturer could not tolerate it and he scolded us angrily and á pointed out our misbehaviour.
5	A good friend of mine died. During the funeral I felt an intense á feeling of sadness.
3	When one has neglected or been unjust to a good friend.
3	I went to a pub with a group of friends (not very close) and á I was with one girl most of the time, while the other girls in the á group wanted to be with me.  They stopped talking to the girl I á was with.
2	I was with a friend in a stationed car when, suddenly a man á appeared on my side and an other with a gun on his side the á hold-up lasted a few minutes but it was terrible. I had never á seen a gun so close.
3	When I have to take exams I am very excited and have not much á time for the housekeeping. Then my friend has to do everything.
5	One of my best friends was hurt by a girl he loves.
1	Someone, who was sitting very close to me, was smoknig in the á compartment of an air conditioned mini-bus.
2	[ I have always been very scared and tense before an exam and á before the declaration of the results.]
6	I was wearing a slit tight dress at a disco and it burst open.
5	When an earlier friend was spreading negative rumours about me.
0	When my chief accused me of an error that I hadn't made.
6	[ Do not know.]
6	For example, to feel bad because of one's attire, to be among á people who do not belong to the same social class, to give a á wrong answer in class, to be surprised in particular situations.
3	I took Pharmacology books from my friend's desk without á permission and I was found guilty.
3	The death of my father made me feel quite guilty, because my á attitude towards him had been cold and indifferent.
3	While playing basketball I broke a team member's spectacles.  His á face was injured by the  pieces of glass.  It was not serious but á I felt guilty and blamed myself for being too careless and á vigorous in my game.
4	The day I got a letter from the U.G.C informing me that I had á been awarded the junior research fellowship.
5	When I heard about the death of somebody I liked very much and I á was not present either to see the person or to try to share my á emotions with other friends.
6	One day mother slaughtered a chicken for a brother who had come á back for holiday. In everybody's absence I opened the foodstore á and ate all internal organs of the chicken. When mother á discovered, we were all called and I was found with hands stained á with soup. I was ashamed being the eldest of all in the family.
4	In 1980 when I was in the 12th standard, we had arranged a small á picnic in Kandala.  One of my closest friends wrote a small and á cute poem for me, which expressed the feeling of closeness we had á for each other.  I was very thrilled and I can still remember it.
6	I think that the only time I really felt shame was when I was á very young and I had to defecate on the street.  I was very á worried in case someone should see me.
2	Someone frightened me in the dark.
2	Recently my younger brother disappeared for two days without á leaving a trace. Usually he tells me when he wants to do á something like that, therefore I was afraid that something had á happened to him.
3	"When I was starting in romance with my husband, we went out to á curt, and we stayed in the car \making love\"". At the time I was á seventeen and I was very immature until a day I lost my á virginity."""
1	When my parents-in-law scolded me, without any reason, in front of the á other members of my family for the first time.  They had called á me from my room where I had been studying for my exams.
3	I couldn't fulfill a promise.
6	Felt it after I spoke terribly (got mad at) the person who is the á most important in my life.
3	An accident happened to my little cousin because I had not taken á enough care of her. She fell on the floor and her hands were á hurt.
4	When I pass exams, or when a close friend of mine recovered á from an illness,etc.
5	Enrolling at varsity, being told I couldn't get in to certain á papers.
4	When my love for a guy was returned.
0	My parents put pressure on me to buy clothes, when I would not á have liked to do so.
0	Anger towards my lover for being late.
0	I wanted to go to a friend of mine who had a party; at the moment á I wanted to leave, my father said I couldn't go because he needed á me for some work in the afternoon.
4	When I learnt that I could do further studies at the Chinese á university.
0	When I was left by the person I loved without any reason.
1	When I saw all the starving people in Ethiopia on T.V.  It felt á awful to see such suffering.
0	When I met my new girlfriend with another man in the street.
6	China not winning more gold medals in the Asian Olympics.
4	When my brother who has been out of New Zealand for 10 years came á to visit with his wife which none of our family had previously á met.
5	After an exam which I failed.
6	I had to pay a fine because of speeding.
1	When a person I did not know hurt a friend of mine.
1	I was disgusted when my brother was arrested because of stealing á money.
2	Doing anatomy alone for the first time.
2	I was sleeping in my room but woke in the middle of the night to á think I could hear noises and see shadows moving. I felt that á someone was in the house.
6	In school I was very bad in running long distances and my á class-mates laughed at me for this reason.
3	When I lied last week. I lied to someone to get info. for a á paper I was writing. I told her that the info. was for a á newspaper article. I was afraid if I told the truth she wouldn't á help me.
3	Promised to do something for other people and did not do it.
5	A friend told me about his cousin who is my girlfriend. He said á she had treated him in a mean and nasty way. I was surprised á because in front of other people she had always treated him in a á friendly way. I am very sad about it.
1	When I saw a girl in my economics discussion section smiling and á asking stupid questions to the TA. just to get attention. She was á obviously ass-kissing. It happens in every Econ. discussion held á weekly.
4	My last genetices midterm - a decent grade.
2	Almost had a bicycle accident.
2	I was crossing the street together with some colleagues of mine á when I suddenly found myself almost under the wheels of a truck.
2	I was afraid when my mother left me alone to live in our house á for one month.
5	A very close friend from Victoria visited me over the holidays. á Having enjoyed his company immensely over 10 short days, I was á overwhelmed by sadness when he left to return to Victoria.á 
1	When my girlfriend told me that she was no longer interested in á me.
1	Yesterday in the elevator a man started smoking, this is á something I just can not tolerate.
2	When the relationship with my first girlfriend broke up and I á realized it too late.
3	When I argue with my sister.  It feels sometimes that I have the á upper hand and I use it.  I often argue better and this makes her á terribly angry.
5	When a close friend took leave of me, because she went to Israel á for one year.
6	Cheating to get the best grade on a test in 7th grade.
2	I felt fear when I fell down and broke my leg into pieces and I á could not feel it at all.
4	My friend had organized a birthday party for me secretly, I was á very happy not so much for the presents but because they seemed á to care for me.
4	This happened a year when I was having a hard time, I got á admission to do research despite obstacles in the procedure of admission.
0	I wrote an assignment and was given less marks than a friend with á whom I had previously discussed the assignment.
6	Not brave enough to take up a challenge in a group discussion.
0	I helped my little sister (13 years) learning mathematics. á Obviously she did not want to understand what I explained and á started to cry. I grew angry.
0	When I am discussing something with a person and I realize that á the other person is thinking over her own argumentations instead á of listening, I become angry.
2	When I was in the army, a room mate of mine came back from á furlough and threatened another fellow with a knife.
2	Walking through campus at night a squirrel jumped in front of á me.
1	Saw someone spitting in public.
2	Walking home in the dark from college.
4	During the summer I received grade cards from my TA's. I expected á a B no better in Computer Science. I looked at the card - I got an á A - I was ecstatic.
0	I was the compere at a party and all my efforts to get the show á rolling were thwarted by the immobile, non co-operative guests.  á I felt frustation - bordering on anger.
4	[ I feel a sense of joy whenever I complete a piece of writing á which is part of my work.  Intense reading also brings me joy.  I á also feel happy when I reminiscent about them.]
2	On my second plane trip, we ran into unexpected turbulence.
1	I felt disgusted when we (family) avoided a problem which could á be solved readily.
2	I'm afraid of not being able to go to the school I want because á of suffering grades.
4	Last year I went to see friends in Yugoslavia - two girls with á whom I get along very well.
1	When one individual takes advantage of and/or injures another á relatively defenseless individual, consciously. I feel disgust á mingled with anger. A person on my dorm floor verbally assaulted á another person for having a certain religious belief.
6	I forgot to zip up my trousers, this was not noticed by anyone.
2	Sometime back I used to stay with my mum alone then time came á when dad joined the family from his working place I found myself á having fear for him for no cause at all.
3	I felt guilty when I failed to take an exam though I had had á enough time to read for it but I hadn't made use of it.
2	I was working at a certain place and everyday after work dad á would come to pick me up.  One day he did not come, it started á getting very dark and I had no money on me and my home was very, á very far away.
6	Close friend discovered I had deceived them. Felt shame at having á done it and knowing that they knew.
3	When I shoplifted a pair of earrings from Coles and my Mum caught á me with them in my bag.
4	When a cousin of mine was discharged from the hospital after       á a long illness.  I had thought that this illness would never end.
4	When I got through the examination for my driver licence, and á when I finished I knew I had passed it.
3	My baby sister was 2-3 months old and when I was trying to get á her on my back, she slipped and fell.
6	I was very ashamed when I failed a test in Standard 7. The á teacher told the other students to shout and laugh at me.
6	When I broke a tea saucer. I felt ashamed. This was during the á birthday of my girlfriend.
3	I forgot my mother's and sister's birthdays (they fall on the á same day).
1	When my father thought that I was an unrelaible son.
0	When I learnt that my younger sister had been expelled from á secondary school because she was pregnant.  That was the second á time that this happened in the family - the first time it had á been my elder sister.
1	We had come back from a programme and we were all (three girls)    á staying over at another girls placce.  One of them started á passing very nasty and outright bitchy remarks at me.  It was á brought on by a male colleague's compliments to me, this girl was á herself interested in this guy.  Bitchiness and catty remarks á made by women never fail to disgust me.  I can particularly á remember this incident as she knew that I had not encouraged the  á guy.
3	I argued with my father on matters concerning marriage. á Traditionally speaking, I was not supposed to, so I felt guilty á of violating my traditions which I must hold in esteem.
0	I'm crazy about football. When my team lost a goal in the Paulist á championship, and so it lost the classifications.
1	I felt disgust with alcohol in general when a close friend of á mine got so drunk that he didn't realize what he was doing and it á was quite shameful.
3	"When I \passed out\"" a female friend of mine for no apparent á reason.  I was under the influence of drugs and when I am like á that I get mad at anyone, however small the provocation."""
3	Classes were over and I wanted to go home.  A friend of mine á asked me to wait for half an hour to take him back home.  I said á no.  
5	A friend misunderstood me.
6	Running away from a fire.
1	A tiresome person held me up all day long.  I was very busy then á (I can not remember what the problem was).  He continously tried á to make me talk to him and disturbed me.
4	When my one year old son gives me a spontaneous kiss.
4	I felt joy when I heard over the radio that I had been successful á in my Primary School Leaving Certificate Examination and was á selected for Secondary School.
3	I slammed my little brother into a wall because he was bothering á me.
6	When I was still a child I was told off in face of other persons á for having touched an object that didn't belong to me.
0	I was sleeping nicely until in the middle of the night when I became á awake because a friend called me for some (in my opinion) á nonsens reason.
6	After lot of explanation, to fail in my work.
3	I made an appointment to pick up someone. However I arrived á too late and she had to wait a quarter of an hour.
4	I had stayed for months without seeing mother because our á holidays were short and my home is far. Some times, mother came to á see me at school, I was very joyful, and I didn't want her to go.
3	My cousin knocked on the door, looking for me to get her watch á back.  I had given it to my girlfriend, Lizzy, as a present.
0	When a person whom I had invited did not come on the appointed á day and time.
0	When my friend, as usual, forgot the tickets at home for a á performance.  We missed it.
1	[ No response.]
6	In an important situation for me, my father behaved inadequately.
0	It was quite recently, at the football match between the national á teams of Bulgaria and France. I felt strong anger with the Scottish á referee who ran the match quite partially.
3	When I triffled with other people.
3	When my father and I worked on the house just after he had á recovered from illness, I was rather lazy.  This meant that he á had to work hard and was not very well later.
2	While cycling in the country, I came across a large herd of á cows.
5	An uncle of mine who just retired, having worked hard all his á life, got a cerebral hemorrhage.
1	When I failed my first biochemistry test.
6	I recently became sexually involved with my sister's lover. I á care for him very much, but I am ashamed of the hurt I may cause á her.
5	[ I missed my twin when I was on the verge of being thrown, which á I disliked.]
0	Saw in the TV South Korea cheating in the Asian Olympic games.
1	I deliberately avoided a person who I wanted to hurt, and who á wanted to talk to me.
1	My older sister used to pick on my brothers and sisters all of á whom were younger than her. On one occasion my brother did á something my sister didn't like. A full-scale battle began.
4	A friend of mine told me that I had passed the entrance exam to á the university.
6	In a Christian gathering's lucky draw I mistook a girl's name for á mine (a boy's name).  I realized my mistake only when I went up á to the stage for the prize.  I did not know what to do as á everyone was looking at me.  I blushed and went back to my seat.
0	When a friend told me that my education had nothing to do with á our discussion.  This friend has failed the 7th grade, what made á me angry was that I had not used my education to argue.
3	When I gave in to what my wife wanted and locked the cat out, it á was killed by the dogs.
0	Found out that someone I knew well has been misunderstanding me á for 2 years.
0	I felt angry when my mother-in-law did not handle my daughter á properly and she fell down from the bed and hurt her head.
0	I missed an opportunity to go abroad because of some silly á mistakes for which I had to suffer a lot.
2	Getting lost in a strange place.
4	I acted in an English play in college and got the Best Actress á award, while our play got the first place.
2	Had fear of losing husband.
2	Traveling as the only female in a railway carriage in the middle á of the night in Italy.
4	When I finished the work that I had planned to do - my homework.
0	I felt anger when at the end of a telephone call, a good friend á told me that she would go to travel next year with another good á friend. We couldn't talk this out.
3	"[ If one has planned to do something \important\"" and then, for á some reason, fails to do it.]"""
0	"At a school dance when my supposed \best friend\"" kept walking á away from me whenever I came near her."""
6	When I could not pass my exams with good marks.  My wedding was á to take place 15 days after the exams and I tried to convince á myself that this was the reason for my not having done well.   á However, I thought that had I really put my mind to doing well at á the exams I would have done well.
0	Without my permission, my son had made popcorn after coming back á from school.  The consequences were a spoilt kettle and chaos in á the kitchen but what could have happened with the hot grease ?
6	Went to a lecture about Chinese history and hear about the Opium á War.
0	When someone tried to rape one of my best friends and he claimed á it was her fault. He the hassled her, claimed she was loose, and á threatened to sue her.
1	When I had just moved into my new appartment I found a ventilator á in the kitchen.  I was going to clean it when I found that the á drum was full of mud and slime.  I felt disgusted.
1	The acts of brutal violence in generally disgusts me. Fights, á phisical aggrssion, etc.
0	I felt it on the same occasion when I felt sadness which finally á grew into anger.
5	[ No response.]
5	"The elections of 1982 and 1985.  The thought of what a social á democrat and communist majority could achieve, especially \worker á share\"" funds and its extension."""
5	When my dog died.
4	When I found out that a set task (i.e. 2 essays and a test), the á thought of which had oppressed me, were not on the date I had á thought.
1	When I came to know that my father and his parents were : self á interested, dirty, negative, egoist, bad peolpe,......
6	As a little girl, I was sick in the middle of a school day and I á vomitted in the basin of the classroom.
4	When my children were born.
4	After much trouble getting together in the first place my á boyfriend and I celebrated our first anniversary.
3	When I blamed my niece for misplacing my book, she denied having á touched or seen it but I carried on insisting that it was her.
1	When in my childhood we were forced to take cod-liver oil.
1	I saw the gare of a prison.  This gare and the building were in á deplorable condition and were full of rubbish.
0	When I was accused of having planned my friend's outing at á secondary school (boarding) as we were not allowed to go out.
2	During the first year in university I had bad results in both á the terms, especially the first term.  I was afraid that  I would á not be promoted to the next year and that the others would go á ahead of me.
4	[ No response.]
1	A friend of mine remembered me when she needed me and did not á even think about me when she did not need me.
5	When my friends did not ask me to go to a New Year's party á with them.
2	Every time I imagine that someone I love or I could contact a á serious illness, even death.
2	When I nearly collided with another car.
0	When playing a football match, there was one player who made mean á tackels, kicked at everything and did things having nothing to do á with football.
1	I feel disgusted with toadies, hypocrites, chameleons.
6	When my mother found out that I smoke maryhuana.
1	When I failed the entrance exam of the medical school and was á studying biochemistry which has no job prospects in Zambia.
5	Not getting on with someone of my classmates in high school.
1	People who discriminate other people disgust me.
2	When I had to go through lonely streets in the middle of the á night.
5	When I heard the news that my grandfather had died.
0	When I saw that my bed at the hostel was a mess I guessed that á someone else had used my daily necessities.  I felt that my  personal á sanity had been affected.
0	Brother provoked anger. It was when mother and father were away á and we had to look after ourselves. He accused me of being á selfish and a snob.
4	When I dived among sharks and the brightly coloured fish on the á outer reef of Tvavni, Fidgi.
0	Angry with my brother, who was making fun of me, teasing me.
0	A friend of mine told other people that I was a slattern (because á of an occurence that had happened some time ago). When I heard á about that I was very angry.
6	Some weeks ago I experienced a day that everything went wrong I á broke several things I felt very ashamed for I am not a sloven.
0	Being insulted by my roommate.
4	Finding out I was chosen for the English lectures.
6	One night a friend found out that I dumped one girl for another á and he proceded to lecture me.
5	I remember being sad whe my aunt's child died (2 days old).
6	Getting a low grade on a midterm.
4	When I began dansing, the teacher came and told me that I was á very good and would soon get into the ballet academy. 
1	"Some time ago I was disgusted with the \cleanness\"" of the á refectory of our institute."""
3	[ No response.]
0	During military service a superior reproached me unjustly. This á led to friction in a lot of situations.
0	When I tried to put up a tent some years ago, I was teased and á hindered by my cousin.
6	When I forgot about a meeting at work.
0	I was having an argument with my brother on his behavior, then we  á started fighting and I got annoyed at him because he started á teasing me.
5	The holidays come to an end, and the next day we had to go back á to University and to the exams.
3	I called my little sister to make her pick up her toy from the á floor. When she still refused after I had asked her for the á fourth time, we began to quarrel. At last the whole family was á involved in this quarrel and trouble was brewing.
4	When my first niece was born.
6	I remember that once, a friend did not co-operate with me due to á some unavoidable reasons.  Unaware of this I treated her unjustly á till I realized everything, and then I felt ashamad of my deeds. 
1	I was on my way home by bus.  A man who had drunk a fair amount of á alcohol started talking, trying to hug and pat a woman sitting á next to him.  Fortunately it was not me.
1	When one finds out that someone you know is not at all like one á had thought, for instance friends who steal and things like that, á quite unwarranted.
1	When I was studying in the library a pair of lovers were sitting á next to me talking in an intense and soft voice.  They were á disturbing others.
1	One of those days when I was going to school with my brother and á he annoyed me.
6	I was really shameful when my mother beat me in the presence of á my friends because I didn't cook lunch up until 2 o'clock.
0	A time when, as part of my work, I was sent out actually sort of á volunteered to run an errand for someone who had no authority to á send me out and the address was very far especially on foot and á turned out to be incorrect too. The whole trip was a waste.
2	When for the first time I rode on a motorcycle with my brother.  á He was going so fast that I felt that I would fall off without my á brother realizing it.
2	The same fact about the girl (22 years, married - guilt - á disgust), the fear was the main factor in our relationship.
6	When I had insulted my father two years back, at that time I was á very angry due to some reasons.
6	When I talked to a psychotherapist for the first time, I started á to cry; first I talked to him but he did not say anything and á after a while I was crying.
6	When unjustified hurting other people.
3	A sense of guilt before my parents when I had to discountinue my á studies in the first year because of unpassed exams.
0	My ex-boyfriend began to date my best friend. After they had been á seeing each other, I found out that he had been sleeping with á another girl, without my friend knowing, I told my friend what he á had been doing behind her back.
5	I was selected to do a rest for a foreign ballet but I did not á have the money to do it.
1	When my mother's new husband treated her and my brothers and á sisters badly.
4	I felt the greatest burst of joy when after being heavily ill for á a long period, my father came back home.
6	Being caught by parents in a compromising situation with á girlfriend.
3	When I forgot to cook something that my mother had told me to, á and at supper time the food that I was supposed to have prepared á was not there.
2	One night I and my friends went to the cemetery. We stopped the á car in front of the wall and suddenly the grave digger appeared á over the wall looking like a ghost. I was already afraid and á almost died.
3	I do not have the time for other people's problems.  My á mother-in-law is sometimes depressed and I do not have the time, á the desire or the strength to help.
2	Saw a classmate knocked down by a motorcycle.
6	I am left-handed. When I attended the first form, we learned to á write with pens. I smeared everything I had written. All my á friends had written well and wanted to know why the teacher was á looking at my note-book. I was ashamed.
1	Yesterday, I was just about to cross the road when a country guy á who was ahead of me spat out a mouthful of betel juice on the á road.  It was very windy and had I not checked my speed I would á have had a very good shower of his saliva.  Though I was not á angry, I felt that these people were very indecent.
3	As I was not paying attention, my little brother fell off the á table.
2	Almost crashing my car, something which could have led to great á problems.
6	A few days back I had a tutorial class and the teacher randomly á assigned one person in each group to make a presentation.  The á discussion in our group had been confused and the presentation á was not very well prepared.  Unfortunately I was selected to á present and I could not keep calm, was confused and result was á very poor.  I really felt ashamed.
3	As a child - accidentally stepping on a pet guinea-pig - it á dying.
2	When I was young I saw a horror film.  Then when I went to sleep, á the film came back too my mind and the characters frighteneed my á imagination.
5	When my friend did not pass the high school graduation á examinations.
6	I went to visit Montrose home for crippled children to interview á a handicapped child. I interviewed two boys and it went really á well. I promised I would visit them, but never got the time. Now I á hope they've forgotten me, but I feel ashamed of letting them á down.
3	When I broke off with my boyfriend after three years.  It was á quite unexpected for him and there was no particular reason for á the break up, such as someone else.
1	When we complained about the uncleanliness of the work place, the á authorities agreed to have the place cleaned.  Even after 2-3 á days nothing had been done.  I felt disgusted at the whole á situation.
4	When I learnt that I had been accepted at the medical school.
4	When I got through the first day here at the department.
2	I was alone in my room at the boarding house when at 12 o'clock á someone knocked violently on the door.
6	Stealing money from my parents when I was young.
6	I felt shame when I found that I was almost last in the exam.
1	"When I saw the film \Memorie of Prison\"" I saw a scene of á masturbation of a man in the hold of a ship apart form fact that á the film wasn't pleasant I had a leg of coconut candies in my á hands."""
3	I was talking to my mom on the phone and she told me that she had á just gotten an award that day in front of all these people and á she asked me if I wanted her to send me the article in the temple á newsletter to me. I said no very quickly and felt guilty for not á being more interested and hurting her feelings.
6	I counterfeited a mark in the school register during the lesson á in gymnastics. I felt this feeling two days later when I stood á face to face with my teacher, whom I highly appreciated and á respected.
1	A teacher giving a test was called by a student by his first á name. He (the teacher) said that he didn't give him this liberty.
5	When I heard that my father had passed away. I could not eat for á a week and was only crying. I could not find the courage to go to á bath.
4	Getting the top price in the football pools.
3	My mom told me not to gamble, but I did anyway. Sometimes I would á even take some money from my parents and brother. She found out á and yelled at me.
1	A friend unjustly put the blame on me to relieve his conscience á and also spread lies for the same purpose.
6	First time going out with a boy and other people laughed at us.
4	At my sister's wedding.
0	My boy-friend came home late one night without having told me á about it before.
2	I helped someone to do something and was found out.
4	After I had been away for a long time a friend told me that I had á passed all my written examinations.
6	When I went to a halloween party and had to walk through a shopping á center dressed like a witch.
4	After a long time (of no communication with him, physical á illness and worry) my lover came to see me, when I least expected á to see him.
6	When a soppy poem that I had written to a boy was found and every á one read it and started teasing me about it.
5	Recent break-up of seriors long-term relationship, helped along á by would-be  in-laws.
1	I was most disgusted when I had to make a nagging three day á journey recently from Calcutta to Bombay.  It was very boring and á tiring.
1	When my elder brother failed form five in 1968 when I was 5 years á old.
4	When I made the winning goal during a very important football á game.
3	"I \snapped\"" very abruptly at my mother when she said something á silly and stupid, (in front of other people) she looked so á defenceless & hurt & told them that I'm always doing that."""
4	On my birthday, my closest friends were here at Berkeley pithched á in a lot of money each and bought me ten records to replace some á of my records that were stolen. They threw a small surprise party á for me too.
2	Stranded in the north of Fraser Island with a submerged 4 WD hire á vehicle.
3	"During an argument with my brother, I behaved rather á intransigently, even cruelly, wishing to morally hurt the \person\"" á opposed to me."""
3	Yelled at my parents for not buying me a car like other parents.
5	[ No response.]
3	When I was forced to decline the invitation to my mother's 70th á birthday because of my work committments in another area.
6	Not being able to argue against class leaders.
6	My elder brother and I have not always had a good relationship á and I feel ashamed of myself as I do not call him to talk to him á nowadays.
6	"One day, when I was sitting on the bus, there was an old woman á standing beside me.  I was very tired and sleepy and did not á think of giving her my seat.  A 50 year old woman who was sitting á beside me got up and gave her seat to the old woman and said,  á \ Old woman, please take my seat, the youngstters these days are á not used to giving their seats to others.\""  When I heard these á words I was very ashamed of myself and wanted to get off the bus á at once.  """
4	I am a school teacher. At a teacher-parent meeting I received a á good deal of positive feed-back on my work both from the parents á and through them from the pupils.
0	When I was blamed for some of my attributes which are very often á misunderstood, especially when one is very frank.
5	I did not quite succeed in breast feeding my baby.
6	My little brother was arrested by the police at the railway station after á he had drunk some beer.
0	On the TV news I heard that Nicaragua had complained about the á increasing threat of war with the USA.
6	When somebody suddenly said something (about me) at a wrong á moment and I didn't agree (at that exact moment I was needing an á extremely positive word).
5	When, for example, I left for the first time my parents and I á went to live in Sofia.
3	During the military service, I lost a part of an equipment; I á accused another person and he was rebuked and punished.
1	I was supposed to be studying for my math midterm a few days ago, á however, I fooled around with my roommate, and didn't start á studying until 12:00 am. I was disgusted with myself.
0	When someone chased me from his house.
2	I felt fear when one night my aunt and Uncle left me alone at á their house to look after the baby when they went to a party.
1	In autumn I had to move to another lodging. My landlords, quite á intelligent people, warned me I had to move in the nearest á future. But I had difficulties in moving my luggage because I á couldn't wait for a car to come. How amazed I was to hear them á threatening me they would throw our my things. And at that my á luggage was well packed and did not stand in their way. I was á quite  disappointed and disgusted.
1	Bus driver driving roughly - old man fell off seat into aisle - á driver wouldn't stop - disgusted with her behaviour.
6	When I let my girlfriend use my essay to help her to write hers á and the tutor found them alike.
5	I was alone at home on New Year's Eve.
1	"On Reperbahn, in a restaurant, a \charming\"" old saleswoman came á to beg a drink for herself."""
3	When I cheated my father and told him that the school á administration wanted K80 for the purchase of a mini-bus.  Two á months later the school authorities wrote back to my father for á the money.  I could not go back and ask him for the money again á as he had already given it to me once.
5	When my grandmother died. She stayed with us until I had the age á of 10. When she died I was 13 and I remember the moment after the á funeral: I sat on the table and cried.
3	Not speaking to my sister-in-law due to lack of interest in a á relationship on my side.
1	When I was a child, I was sometimes forced to eat things that á disgusted me.
5	I had a quarrell with my boyfriend and decided to finish with him á and and my Easter holidays.
6	I bought a possible answer to a homework problem which was á completely inapplicable to the question due to my not having read á about the subject matter.
1	[ When some people act very important in any situation.]
5	As a ten-year-old I was at the funeral of my grand-father.  It was more á the ceremonies held in the church and not really the death of my á grand-father which made me sad.
5	We got news that my (almost) 21 years old brother died while á visiting Europe of a cerebral hemorhage. It finally hit me an á hour after we saw his corpse in the coffin. It felt like a door á between himself and everything had closed and locked forever.
1	I had a discussion with my wife about an over-weight acquaintance of á our's, about her eating habits and the scars caused by her á pregnancy.
0	An unjust refree decision at a sports event when I was the team á leader.
0	A friend visited and made comments that my house/garden were not á as neat/tidy as in the past. I'd not seen her a year - She á implied I'd gone to the pack (I'd only been working full time, á and taking 3 University exams part time).
5	My dear hamster (called Hannes) died at the age of 2 and 1/2 years. á His shape forced me to mercy killing (an injection).
0	When it became clear that a man had used many people sexually á and psychologically, despite the fact that many people looked up á to him.  I understood that one could not trust him and I was á forced to hide this for a while.
2	[ Never.]
6	When I had not been accepted to a college which I dreamed of á going to. I felt that I had let myself and my parents down.
0	I was angry when my boyfriend did not turn up as promised.
6	One day in the intimity with my girlfriend I had an ejaculation.
3	After moving out of my apt. I took all the furniture and dishes á and everything. It was mine but I took it all just to spite my á roomies. We had a few (a lot) of disagreements. I felt guilt for á moving out for the bad reasons.
2	Waiting for the results of the High level examination.  I was á afraid of not being accepted.
6	During an informal discussion I contributed a lot even though I á had not spent much time studying.  Whenever someone said that á someone was not paying attention, or that he had too many other á things to do, or that the persoon was not trying his best, I á would feel ashamed.
2	I walked up the main street of Auckland at 10 o'clock at night. I á expected it to be very active with people, gangs, fast cars etc, á thought it was actually quite quiet, though also oppressive. I á walked about half a mile and bought a drink along the way.
3	The sense of guilt came over me too, when I interrupted my á studies. Why ? Because I felt guilty before my parents ! They á believed in me though this event did not make them disbelieve me.
5	I had drunk a couple of beers and my fiancee got angry at me.
2	Staying in a relative's house which was broken in before.
3	I felt that I contributed to a possible rift in the relationship á between a boy and girl soon to be married, in my flat after I á moved in. After stating my celibacy to him which she overheard á and didn't previously know about I suspect.
4	My boyfriend and I were getting dressed up and putting make-up á on to go to a Halloween Party. We were dressing up to be two á mimes. It was very enjoyable and I thought we looked really good, á it was an accomplishment. We were alone in his house.
6	I drink wine too often.
1	A mother who shouts at her child for nothing.
3	Guilt conscious struck me when I failed my Standard Two á Examinations in 1972. I knew that I would suffer the consequences á of what I had been doing during class hours: thus playing with á friends and sometimes not even going to school.
4	When I passed the B.A exams with 1st class.  I was the first in á the family to have got a 1st class, so all the family members á were very happy and they gave me the opportunity to study á further.
4	It was the first time I met him (my boyfriend Mr.W).  It was á during the first term Summer vacations.  We met each other while á handing in our homework.  He invited me have a trip with him and á we were together till 8 P.M.
5	My friend got married and went abroad, this made me feel sad and á lonely.
3	I had told my boyfriend that I did not want to go on with our á relationship.  I knew that I was important to him but I wanted to á be free.  I saw that this was difficult for him but I remained á firm and did not change my mind.
4	When I won a tennis match.
3	This situation happened when my friend me with a knife which I á stole from him.
1	Despite my being affectionate, sincere, and helpful to close  á relatives of mine; they turned around and accused me of being á inconsiderate in my relationship with them.
2	After my car accident, when I woke up in a heap of stones.
4	When my first child was born.
1	When junior doctors returned to work after bunking them.
4	My cousin asked me to be a bridesmaid for her. This made really á happy because I was adopted into the family and her asking me á made me realise that she saw me as a cousin and not just another á person. There were other cousins she could have asked but she á asked me.
5	When I left my part-time job.
3	A friend of mine got encouragement and I did not, as the á supervisor did not like me.
1	Our neighbour came and gossiped, about others, with my parents.
6	I slipped on butter one evening in the Dining Commons landed on á my rear causing my tray also to land on the floor.
6	Soiled my short trousers with faeces.
2	I was afraid when I learnt that my father was seriously ill in á hospital.
5	When my grandfather died I was extremely sad.  However my family á members did not have any special feelings, they said that he was á already 80 years old.
2	One day I went to the cinema to see a film in which I was á interested.  On arriving there I saw a long queue (which I had á not expected) and went back home without seeing the film.
4	During the period of falling in love, each time that we met and á especially when we had not met for a long time.
5	I was away to school (Primary). In my abscence my young brother á at home got sick suddenly. My parents took him to hospital. On á the way he died. It came to me as a sad, sudden and shocking á news and I felt very sad.
4	When I was accepted as supervisor for a student teacher.  The á notification came by post.
6	When I was ten years old a classmate laughed at me because I had á told him that my father had retired.
2	I was terrified during an axcursion in Italy. I was lost and left á alone in this unfamiliar country.
2	[ No response.]
0	[ I feel angry when somebody is unjust to me.]
6	I flet shameful when I learnt that I cooked Nsima which was full á of lamps in it.
4	Once a week I work as a volunteer in a biologic garden. this work á in the garden and the contact with other volunteers filled me á with joy. They also gave me support after I failed passing my á driver's test.
0	When I was mistreated by my step-mother.
0	A friend forgot his appointment with me.
2	An hour before receiving the certificate results I was very á frightened.  When I saw others crying I felt very tense and as á time went by my fear grew.
1	A man was unfair to a girlfriend of mine.
6	When the teacher asked me a question in class, concerning á something I had read earlier, and I did not know the answer, so I á felt ashamed in front of the whole class.
4	When I called my boyfriend he asked me if I would live with him.
5	When I was not selected to go to the University of Malawi I felt á very sad.
3	I told my parents (or more realistically) would not do what they á wanted me to do anymore. I guess I sort of betrayed them after á all they had done for me.
3	I told my pesent boyfriend that I was an Australian as are my á parents. As the relationship developed I found it harder and á harder to confess and became sure it would end our relationship. á He eventually found out when told in front of me by my mother.
5	When I failed two subjects last year.
5	When I realized the burden it was for my mother to look after all á of us, all by herself.
0	In the student kitchen that we share, somebody drank from my á juice pot (one litre) so that I only got one glass out of the á whole pot.
0	When my sister lost my favourite jumper at a party and failed to á tell me for several days after it happened.
2	Two years ago I saw a film on the TV. Even now it makes me á afraid.
2	I do not recall being scared in the near past.
5	Cooks refused to give me food.
1	I used to play with a group of classmates and I found out later á that they were cheap in thought, behaviour and conduct - they á would smoke, fight and speak foul language.  I thought that they á destroyed the image of college students.
3	When I finished a test type of exam and did not dare to answer á any question, I doubted whether I would pass the exam  or not.
4	I have a girlfriend, who is almost like a daughter to me.  She is á studying out of station and I get to see her only once a year.  á Her arrival is always a joyous one.
2	When I went to my first dental appointment.
0	When the university withdrew the accomodation that it had given á me.
6	Spots on the seat covers of my husband's car.
6	I felt shame when I saw someone I knew and pretended not to see á her. Later she saw me and said hi.
5	I separated with the one I liked most.  She refused all my dates á and told me that she had dated another one.  My heart seemed to á cease beating.  I was silent for some time and then I whispered á goodbye and left without turning back.
3	One of my pupils escaped from school to the street.
3	One saturday night I did some meaningless work and went to bed á very late.  Next morning I had was very sleepy so I continued á sleeping even though I had work to do and I missed the Sunday á service.
3	When I pulled a chair from under someone at kindergarten and he á hit his head.
1	When a begggar approached me for money, I felt disgusted.
6	When I had to go to the gynecologist and to sit on that special á chair, I felt ashamed.
2	I was alone in a cottage I often stay in.  I was woken up by a á rustling sound in the middle of the night.
6	When I have suffered a terrible fit of eating, that frequently á occurs. Then I eat everything, I act like a glutton I eat big á amounts of food, sometimes even half a loaf.
2	I was nearly knocked down while I was cycling.
6	I was wearing slippery shoes and I tumbled down in a place where á there were many people walking by.
0	I was given an exam which I thought did not measure at all my á ability or my knowledge of the subject.
5	I was so sad when I heard that my Uncle had passed away. He was á the only man who was supporting my parents as well as myself.
4	One night, my boyfriend expressed his love for me in the canteen in á the presence of my friends by giving me a present.
3	I had promised my friend to take her to an important appontment á but I was late. So she missed the opportunity to get a wellpayed á holiday job.
1	[ I would classify subjectively, a certain gesture or the way of á talking of a person as disgusting or inacceptable.]
1	At hostel, my roommate was a very selfish person and would avoid á doing anyhting that did not concern him.  A few of us prepared lunch á together and had decided to share the work.  My roomate had á promised to do the same but I had to wash the bowls everytime á after dinner.  I tried to wait and thought that he would realize á his fault.  I did not want to tell him to do the work as he is a á university student and ought to have self-respect.  He á disappointed me and so every time I saw him I tried to avoid him á and did not want to keep any contact with him.
3	Getting a friend an open container ticket because I got caught á speeding.
5	Recently I happened to remain alone for a long time.
4	I received a letter of acceptance from UNZA.
3	When my ex-boyfriend didn't want to sleep with me anymore and I á insisted. We made love but he felt very badly and I felt guilty.
1	At an unworthy behaviour of a man, pettiness, stupidity and á mostly at a philistinism.
5	When my beloved grandfather died.
2	When my father was ill and was waiting for the results of his tests.
3	As I could not be home before midnight I called home at 11.30 and á asked them to leave the door open so that I could get in.  I á actually woke up the whole family by calling them so late.  My á mother could not go back to sleep, besides she had a conference   á the next day and really needed to sleep.
6	This situation happened when I was found kissing a girl who was á my friend's girlfriend.
2	When confronted and in my opinion hassled by the police.
6	When I talked maliciously about a colleague at work to someone á else.  Immediately afterwards I felt ashamed.
5	Disappointed by a friend.
5	[ No response.]
6	I was nailed. I lied in connection with a book which I took from á the library, because I had to keep it for a longer time.
1	Ever since I have been a child, the sight of any kind of wound.
0	In a very important basket-ball match where a lot was at stake, I á played very badly.
0	When someone told a secret I told them not to tell.
4	Getting back with my boyfriend after a year away - apart.
4	I was very happy when I discovered that I had passed my first á year examination and was among the thirty students who would á major in economics.
4	When I met my mother after not having seen her for three years.
6	When I was detained one day in school, by the vice-principal, for á indiscipline.
6	When a friend told me a story and I stayed dumb because I had no á story to tell.
4	When I was admitted to the University.
2	I watched a very terrfying film in LT2.  This film really pushed á my heart out of my body and I was forced to go out before the á second reel ended.
1	I felt disgust when I kissed a guy that I know. I was on the outs á with my boyfriend and this person appeared but he has nothing to á do with me.
2	When I whatched a horror film on a Friday 13th.
6	I fell off a bike in the presence of a lot of people.
3	Because I had not studied.
6	Finding out that China does not have enough foreign currency to á buy books.
4	The way this particular girl spoke, behaved, and reacted the á first time I was introduced to her, I felt certain that something á between us would materialize.
3	When I was responsible for getting my friend run-out in a vital á cricket match.
0	[ No response.]
2	Once I had to go home on foot at 5 a.m. I had to pass through a á forest and I was going alone.
6	I wore a dirty dress a certain day I was going to town I met an á old friend who made a comment about my dress so I felt ashamed.
3	I went to go get a bike innertube fixed. I fixed it and I was á supposed to pay previously but I didn't. I said I would after I á fixed the tire. After fixing the tire, the salesperson who helped á me was gone so I walked out of the store without paying. I felt á guilty so I went inside and paid for the tire.
6	When I promised to help a friend over a weekend and did not keep á the promise.
4	When my little sister was born.
1	When I was denied my favourite dish at the dinning hall (shima á with roast chicken), I felt disgusted.
1	When I heard of the assassination of the Indian prime-minister, á Indira Gandhi.
2	When someone tried to bewitch me and my friends at night.
5	When I read the diary of the girl with whom I was living, it was á about another boy with whom she had been going around some time back.
3	I broke the gutar of a colleague but as it happened in a moment á when nobody was present I could escape from the guilt.
0	I went to a lecture and once again it had been cancelled, this á was the second time.  One had a negative attitude towards the á lecturer.á 
4	On New Year's Eve I went in a disco with friends. I amused myself á and got to know many other people.
2	Looking for the toilet in a dark place.
1	I read a book about the sexual phantasies of women; I read about á a woman having sexual intercourse with a dog.
0	When a teacher tells a story which isn't true. It only reflects á his way of interpreting reality.
3	I arrived an hour late for an important meeting ( I had á misunderstood the time).
0	During the Summer, at my workplace, a person kept interfering á with my tasks and making unfounded remarks.  I felt hatred for á him but it stopped when I realized that he just longed for attention.
4	Did very, very well on a Physics midterm.
5	The girl I was seeing didn't want to have a serious relationship. á 
5	When someone in my family died.
5	I like someone who does not like me and was rude to me.
1	One time at the hospital I passed near the intensive care room. á The offensive smell that came out disgusted me in such a way that á I didn't even dare to enter the room.
6	My father was very angry with another man in the presence of my á friends.
2	One day I was busy day dreaming along the road and suddenly I á heard the sound of jamming car braked behind me. I woke up from á my dreams and it was about to crash me.
4	I was overwhelmed with joy when I received the acceptance letter á to UNZA.  This happened again when I passed all my first year á courses.
3	No ideal result in the University entrance examn, guilty to á family and friend.
2	Going home alone through the forest after a girl guide (scout ?) á meeting.
6	When I wet my head (or bed ?) one day my sister discovered it and reported á it to the other siblings. So my mother had to scold me.
2	When I missed crashing, by a hair's breadth, into a man who came á out 20 metres ahead of me when I was driving at 110km/h.
0	When we were in high school a few guys sometimes provoked a á friend of mine.  They called her a pig and then grunted.  This á irritated most of the girls.  Once, one of the girls got angry at á my friend and said something nasty and this made me terribly á angry.
4	My first kiss.
1	When I noticed that a nice person was being exploited á economically.
6	Every time I was around this one person I would stick my foot in á my mouth by being nasty. One time I accidently said something á fairly cruel that was totally inappropriate.
2	Walking in the dark I saw something strange.
4	When I came across an old friend whom I had not seen for a very á long time.
0	When I saw a big man hit another one, and nobody did anything.
5	The saddest moment in my life was when I lost my younger sister a á few years back.
6	When I contacted a sexually transmitted disease and the á lecturer came to know about it as it was he who treated me for á it.
0	When present boyfriend's mother approached my parents and self - á to leave her son alone - as she did not want me for a future á daughter-in-law.
4	I had gone camping with my old classmates and there was a storm.  á We were in a flurry but at that time I felt the love and concern á of my friends.
6	Finding out about Chinese money cannot buy foreign journals.
2	When I climbed up a tree to pick apples.  The angle of the ladder á I was on did not enable me to get high enough.  This implied á that the ladder was not very stable.
4	At the pre-university, I was appreciated as an examplary á student by our pricipal.  This is something which made me feel á very happy.
0	When someone took my writing materials yet I was to write á Examinations in a few minutes.
4	When my former boyfriend and I reconciled and he decided that I á was very important to him. I had always wanted us to get back á together again, but had doubted the likelihood of this, so I was á very happy when my small amount of faith was vindicated.
6	Talking to friends about how old you are and we cannot be as á successful as you at your age.
1	About my girlfriend's sister who is a viper as I discovered some á time ago.
2	When my father suffered with dizziness. He had to be á hospitalized, because the physician didn't know what was wrong. á Because his stools were black, I thought it could be cancer.
6	My grand father caught me eating his private jelly bean supply.
3	When I tell someone no. In other words when I refuse to do á something although I could have helped him.
0	The surname of my brother was different from ours.  He often á grinned at home and provoked others for the pleasure of it.  This á made me angry.
5	The loss of my father as he died of a massive and sudden heart á attack.
6	After an event in which I felt that I had acted unfairly.
2	When a guy chased me when I was out jogging.
5	I was very sad when I did not get admission in the English á college, as I had 1% less marks than they wanted.
5	When I applied for the college entrance examination to FUVEST, á and I wasn't approved in the second fase.
5	When my sister lost her only son, who was sixteen years old.  I á felt very bad about it as this was the first death in my family á and then I learned slowly to understand to life.
0	When they stole my dark blue tennis.
3	My father got a slight heart attack after a telephone call of á mine.
6	Criticized in front of the class.
1	I felt disgust with a person whose behaviour was out of the á elementary human norms.
2	I went home late one evening and saw that the security lights á were off.  I got inside the gate and just then I realized that á the dogs may be outside.
3	Sometime back I came across a certain man who was badly beaten by á some people because he was found raping the wife of the village á headman.
0	When I was beaten up by thieves on behalf of some friends of mine á as they thought that I had a lot of money and would not part á with a few coins for their drinks.
4	One night, at a friend's place I realized that I had everything I á most wished, around me.
4	When I was accepted as a student.
5	When I feel helpless after having tried to help someone without á any result.
0	When, after a week at school, a teacher sent a note home saying á that my son was inattentive and unable to do his lessons.
5	Found out that my grandmother might have been misdiagnosed as a á psychiatric patient because the doctor did not know about á neurologism.
3	When I became angry at my boyfriend without any reason. I know he á cannot bear me being angry at him and that he can't study anymore á then.
0	This was when my boyfriend told me that I was double-crossing him á with a certain boy.
5	My parents told me that they do not like my friend.
5	Our dog had to be shot because he had killed a roe. I liked him á very much and so I could not resign myself to that. I hated the á hunter who shot him.
2	Unknown person knocking repeatedly on backdoor when no one else á was at home.
2	I was to meet one of my friends (girl) at the library at 8:00 á already dark. She would be walking alone. She was 45 minutes late á but I kept waiting, calling her room and other places she could á have been.
4	Today I did a lot better on my architecture project than I á expected.
3	I had told a person unpleasant things in a bad manner. He was á very depressed and caused an accident.
3	I had shown anger toward my dog and he was killed later that day.
5	A person died (not really a friend).
2	I was hitchhiking and was picked up by a stranger he drove into á the woods and wanted to make love with me, I refused and escaped á from the car. When walking in the wood and hearing the car I was á afraid.
3	I slapped my sister's daughter and after several hours, she had a á high temperature and she ended up being admitted in hospital.
3	Not being able to spend more time with a friend who was visiting á me.
5	At the death of a close relative.
3	I broke off with my partner as I wanted him as a friend and not á as a lover.  He reacted very violently and I felt guilty as I á had made him so desperately unhappy.
1	I saw a magazine with photographs of dead and maimed people whose á limbs were separated from their body like a head on one side and á the leg on the other.
4	"I was \best man\"" at my brother's wedding a year ago."""
2	When we had swimming instruction, we had to take a header from á the springboard. I usually refused to do that, but at least I was á forced to.
0	When my mother scolded me for coming home late, i.e after 7 P.M.
2	When we stayed in Vienna with our class, my friend and I behaved á incorrectly. Our teacher threatened us with exclusion from á school.
5	When my friend (girl) went abroad for two years.
0	My friend often played a joke on me and sometimes I thought that á he was a nonsensical person. Once when we went to a friend's á house he walked in first and shut the door firmly behind him.  I á felt that he did not respect me and moreover I was his friend so á he should not have behaved like that.  I was very angry (as it is á I was in a bad mood then).
0	I was so angry with a patient who refused to take drugs.
3	Once I was not able to give a relative, who was in a critical á period, a helping hand.  Whenever I think about it I feel guilty  á for letting down the person who trusted me to give him a helping á hand.
6	When some unforgiving acquaintance dragged up an old and rather á embarassing situation from my past.
4	When I entered in the University after a year of struggles.
6	When I was taken to the place where my uncle had defecated in his á pants after having drunk beer.
5	My fiancT's family was adopting a 5 years old boy. I felt á myself close to him as I never felt before. After some time his á mother demanded the care of the kid and we were obliged to send á him back.
6	After failing a second attempt at Med 4, following a number of á difficult personal circumstances.
2	When I was involved in a traffic accident.
3	At my Summer job a new caretaker had been employed who was my age á  but I preferred going out for lunch with the accounts personnel á rather than with him.
2	I was in my village when a bull jumped over a fence and started á chasing my friends and me.  We were very frightened till we á climbed up a tree.
0	I was at home, filling my tax report.  Nobody had time to help á me.  I would have liked to do it quickly so that I could go and á meet a friend of mine who had just returned from hospital.  I got á angry as both my brother and my father refused to give me their calculator á as I had not asked for it nicely.  I could not leave as I á had to wait for help and the tax report had to be done.
0	Going away for the weekend, leaving my College room open - when I á returned several friends had had a party there, leaving the mess.
2	It was last week on Saturday night when I was at Mchesi. I feared á to cross the Lilongwe River Bridge to come back to School due to á darkness - until somebody had to escort me.
3	I happened to have met one of my teachers in town during working á hours. The badness was I didn't ask for permission to go out and á I was guilty-conscious.
1	When I entered a toilet in a bar and it stank.
2	When I met an elephant in the bush.
4	I watched a football match with my old friend.  The performance á of the team was very good and the team members were full of á spirit.  The match was excellent and every time a goal was scored á I felt excited.
3	I was keeping a friend's Library book which went overdue. My á friend was charged for the delay in returning the book to the á Library. I felt guilty when I realised I was responsible.
1	I felt disgusted at the environment while getting back to my á student lodging. I did not see anything in the suburb which had á been planned by taking people's comfort into account.
3	I wanted to get rid of a bad habit and it seemed that I had á succeeded.  However a year later I got the bad habit again.  I felt  á useless as I always found excuses to explain my behaviour.  As a result I á felt guilty.
6	I told evil lies about a close friend of mine.  I was evil in á order to sound jolly, to charm a person whom I wanted to impress. á  I sold my friend, I was despicable.
3	It was my turn to cook dinner.  I forgot a dish (the favourite of á the family) in the oven and it got burnt and was uneatable.
3	My friend had written a letter to me, the contents of which I á misunderstood and I wrote back a very harsh letter to her.  On á realizing the blunder I had made, I felt like hiding my face in á the sand.
3	Not acting on my promise.
1	In a warm bus full of people, someone vomited and the whole bus á stank.
5	The funeral of a friend who was killed in a car accident. She was á of my own age, there were many of my own friends present, as well á as her family etc.
4	Going to Chico to visit a friend.
6	At school - being whipped by the teacher in front of the class.
6	When I failed grade 7.
5	When I heard of the death of a friend who had just finished her á training I felt very sad for she was young.
5	I felt very sad when my son died after a short illness.
5	When I failed an exam.
4	That afternoon I rushed home to look at the result slip of the á higher level as fast as possible.  I opened the envelope very á carefully and found that my results were much better than I á had expected and thus I could enter the Chinese university.  My á diligence had paid and I was very happy.
2	I was at home alone and my mother had asked me to heat the house. á I put too much fuel into the stove. It began to glow and there á was a noise in the whole house as if it was going to explode.
4	When I was admitted to the University.
3	I bought something and the shopkeeper gave me more change, I á realized this after I had left the shop and was on the bus-stop - á and I then needed the money.
3	Once I lied to my parents and this made me feel very guilty.
1	The carterer refused to give me sugar to add to my tea saying á that there was no sugar whilst it was there, so I left the cafe á disgusted without taking the tea.
0	Someone who was speeding was forced to slow down when I pulled á out onto the road and proceeded to abuse me at the next set of á traffic lights.
0	I was a prefect at secondary school.  On the sports day I told á others that I would take down the names of the people who á misbehaved and after some time I sat down for a brief rest.  á Suddenly the head prefect came and scolded me in front of others. á  I was very angry as there were other prefects sitting and he á picked on me.  I thought that a brief rest was not  serious á enough to be blamed.
0	With the girl whom I may be loved truly. When she refused to come á with me to an occasion (she was from another town).
6	I felt the above condition when I was found in a house playing á with another man's wife where I was asked questions and I was á unable to answer.
3	When I was in the puberty I smashed the favourite toy of my á little brother because of a fit of rage.
4	Easter holiday - I had been working weekends and had just left.
6	When I failed the grade seven exams.
3	When my pet dog,who was to us a family member, died.  He had been á vomitting for the past three days and we had not found the time á to call a vet, finally when the vet came it was already too late.
1	When people manipulate others through appearing better than what á they really are.
4	The feeling of joy when again I had confessed my sin and á experienced God's forgiving grace and cleansing power - total á enlightenment and freedome - bliss.
2	I was diving below the ice, in a cave, at a depth of 26 metres.  á Visibility was almost zero and the oxygen level decreased á threateningly.  There were three of us divers on one safety rope.
1	With my mouth full of bun, I drank directly from a packet of milk á which turned out to be weeks old (completely separated).  It took á a while for the milk to seep through the bun.
1	Saw people spitting in public.
3	I had promised to visit my girlfriend but for different reasons á could not make it.  I rang up later to tell her that I could not á come.
0	"I peeped into Maurine's bedroom and saw two people - Maurine anbd á my step-dad.  I thought, \ Why did she break her promises ? Why á had she invited me ? Why do old men go for young girls ? \"""""
0	A colleague asked me for some advice and as he did not have á enough confidence in me he asked a third person.
5	I felt sad when I was despised by another person.
5	My sister bkoke her leg.
4	When I got a wedding ring of diamond from the boy I loved.
6	Following heavy stirring / ridiculing a close friend who was á very vulnerable to such attack - inspiring fierce, defensive á counter-attack.
6	When I arrived late at the job and met the most troublesome boss.
5	When a close friend of mine collapsed and passed away and the á illness was not known.
1	When I attended school, our class visited an institution for á mentally and physically handicapped persons. Although I tried to á control my feelings, I was disgusted.
3	Someone asked me to do something and I made up an excuse and said á no. I then went and didn't the same thing with someone else and á hoped the first person never found out.
6	When I approached a person of the opposite sex and was rejected.
5	When my elder sister died.
5	When I left a man in whom I really believed.
4	When I heard that a close relative of mine had given birth at a á very young age, in a very remote area and had had very few problems.
6	When I was an evening school teacher it was my job to make the á coffee but I was not able to get the coffee ready on time and I á thus arrived half an hour late to the class.  On top of this the á coffee was undrinkable.
0	"I caught a \peeping tom\"" at my window when I was getting á undressed."""
5	I have a very close friend who lives in another city and we have á been writing to each other for a long time.  The last time I went á to her city, just to see her, I was disappointed to see how great á the distance between us was.
0	Being insulted in public for the wrong reason.
3	When I have been overhastingly offending or hurting.
4	I met my present boyfriend on a boat trip to England.  We had á said that we would call each other when we got back to Sweden (we á were not going to the same town in England).  As soon as I walked á in he called from England as he could not wait till he came á home.
1	When I saw several people washing their car with water from a á drain.
1	I saw a physically handicapped young man whose spittle ran out of á his mouth while speaking.
1	My brother gave me a beating because he could not beat me á verbally.
3	I took my grandmother's money without telling her and when asked á if it was me who had taken the money, I denied it.
1	A gigantic spider climbed over my face and what is more - in my á own flat.
3	I feel always guilty before my parents when I come home and have á to tell them I have failed an exam.
0	"At a cash desk where I had gone to buy 16 rolls of kitchen paper á at a reduced price.  After queuing with screaming children; it á turned out that I had taken two 8 roll packets instead of the one á 16 roll packet to which the rebate applied.  The assistant said á \You will have to get it another time.\"""""
6	I was alone in the bus when I tripped and fell, and dropped all á my papers.
5	The death of my mother-in-law after a long sick-bed. at the á moment of dying I was with her.
5	When I learned that a friend of mine had not been speaking to her á boyfriend for a week after an argument because of unfounded á jealousy.
4	A party I went to last Christmas.
3	Last year I put off an exam for the autumn session without á knowing if there was a supplementary examination session. When I á came home with my exam unpassed I felt guilty before my parents á when I remembered how much they had done for me.
3	When I discovered that the girl I was courting was a relative of á mine.
3	I spied on my fiancT and was terribly jealous. Later I saw that á there was no reason for that.
2	This last August when my parents dropped me off and moved me into á college I didn't know anybody here; I was 17 and Berkeley really á scared me.
4	During lectures, I sensed an unexpressed understanding with a boy á I did not know.  We exchange glances ; I think he likes me, and I á like him too.  Perhaps he has fallen in love with me .........
3	[ I do not remember any event when I felt guilty.]
2	A friend's father had died, I was to come and see this friend á although I did not know his family.
4	I had a little cat which was very sick. As I liked it very much I á went to a veterinary with it. He told me how to tend it and it á really recovered its health. Everybody said that I had saved its á life.
6	When I wasn't well prepared for a terminal exam and the teacher á tried to give me a three by asking me some very easy questions. I á burned with shame then.
2	When I did not get admission in M.Sc after my B.Sc, I felt really á bad.  When I started my journey to Bombay, after having accepted á my uncle's offer to come to Bombay, I was afraid, wondering if I  á would succeed or not. 
1	When I went home by train from Sicilia, I was molested by a man.
1	Does not apply.
5	My grandfather was seriously ill, he had only a few days left to á live. I had always loved him, but never told him. When I saw him á for the last time, I had the feeling that I had omitted so many á things I could not do again. - There was a fly sitting on his á forehead and he was too weak to drive it away. I was very sad á when I saw that.
1	Coming home one night - my sister was home, and had been drinking á heavily and started picking arguments.
2	Passing (by car) over a bridge where only one car could pass. There á was a precipice on both sides, no protection grilles, and the á bridge was completely muddled.
3	A young girl tried to put an end to her life because of lover's á grief; not until she was in hospital I heard that I had been the á reason for her action.
2	Once I was alone at home. I suddenly felt unwell and there was no á one to help me and call First Aid.
6	One day in the TYBA class the teacher asked me a very simple á question which I could not answer.  Finally the teacher himself á gave us the answer and my friends started laughing at me as I had á not been able to answer a simple question.  I knew the answer but á feared that my response may be wrong.  All this made me feel á ashamed of myself. 
4	My current lover and I had been very busy with work and study and á had not had time alone together for almost a month until one á afternoon recently when we made love for hours and then showered á and ate together.
2	When I came back from work one day, the friends of my son told me á that he had not come back from school and that he was lost.
0	Angry when our team (small boys) lost the county championship á football final.
5	A few years ago my mother suffered from canccer and died within á two years.  We had not finished our studies then and could not á bear our responsibilities as her children.  My mother had tried á her best to take care of us but she lived in pain these two á years.  Neither the doctor nor we could do anything for her as á cancer is incurable.  I was very eager to replace her in á suffernig , even die instead of her.
4	When I got accepted to CAL.
1	When I stand at the bus stop for one hour waiting for the bus to á arrive.
0	They wanted something to happen but I didn't.
5	The same as for SHAME and DISGUST. I was asked to resign my á sorority which I did because I was ashamed.
3	I had lunch with my ex-boyfriend and did not mention it to my á fiancee.  I felt guilty despite the fact that I felt nothing for á my ex-boyfriend.
4	When planning to marry.
2	It was on St. Claus Day when I was five years old. St. Claus and á his Devil Servant came to see me. St. Claus' Devil Servant á rattled with his chain and bowled terribly. I was so frightened á that my parents had to ask him to leave.
6	My sister was afraid of her husband.
0	Landlord putting up rents sneakly and slimily.
6	I didn't offer my seat to a pregnant woman in the bus.
5	My little cat which I had raised all by myself, hanged itself when á playing in the garden.
2	I am afraid before an exam or colloquium.
1	When my father revealed inconsistent morals.
0	I worked together with another student on a computer-assignment. á She didn't do her best and didn't prepare herself for it. She á expected me to explain it to her.
3	I felt guilty one day when I stole a slice of bread in a á cafeteria.
0	When a pick-pocket robbed me of my money (K20) while I  was á buying bathing soap.
5	I had a good relationship with two friends. Once without reason, á they clearly showed that they thought I was naive, dull and á unable to take care for myself, while I expostulated that I could á manage things.
0	The stories about the way my grandmother treated my mother.
0	Two years back someone invited me to be the tutor of her á grand-daughter.  The grand-daughter asked me some questions in á mathematics so I taught her.  However she did not listen to me á and this made me feel unhappy.  The second year it was the same.  á When I entered university the girl's parents suggested that I be á employed as their daghters tutor.  They told me that at university  á there was no homework and I would have a lot of time so they á made a time-table  for me which required me to be the tutor five á days a week.  They did not respect me and anyway I had another á child to teach.
3	When I was face to face with my deceived friend after sleeping á with his wife.
3	"I was on a concert-tour and therefor seperated from my á boy-friend. But I needed warmth which was given by a male member á of the orchestra. My feelings towards him were not very deep, but á his feelings were. I felt guilty when he said \I am not a á radiator\""."
2	I had gone to the hospital for my research and got late in á reaching home.  I feared that when I reached home there would be á a quarrel because of my being late.
6	As a small boy, I took a coin from an empty taxi cab.  My mother á saw it and told the driver about it.  I even knew the driver.
0	When I saw a few people beating a man who seemed to be a á stranger.
0	My friend misunderstood me.
1	[ I feel disgust at people lying.  It means that they say one á thing to one person and the same thing in another way to another á person and this makes people quarrel among themselves.]
2	Movement in bush late at night while camping.
3	When I demand too much from my friends.
5	When I thought that it was going to be impossible for me to start á studying (due to wrong information from the student advisor).
3	I removed an article of clothing belonging to my employer while á in a position of trust.
3	In adolescence I had a very violent fight with my sister I hold á her stong in her neck, she had a throat surgery what make me feel á guilty about the future reactions she might had injuring the á surgery.
1	When I failed the  grade 7 exams.
3	One night I did not come home without telling my parents and I á did not want to speak about it afterwards. My mother cried. I had á a bad conscience and felt guilty.
3	I had not done my assignment seriously.  I only pretended to á finish the work as the work did not have any meaning for me.  The á whole thing made me feel guilty.
2	[ No response.]
2	After mischieviously ringing on the chemist's trade-entrance á doorbell and getting caught by him.
0	I bought an aquarium which made me much pleasure. I was watching á the fish when my father came in and asked me how much I had payed á for it. He said he would not pay for the current that it would á require.
6	Talking about a person's unattractiveness, not realizing that the á person was listening.
5	One day, I was home and there was a phone call informing me that á some of my relatives had died in an accident.
1	I have a horror of spiders and snakes. On a walk through the wood á I saw the body of a slow-worm (without the head).
4	My father promoted to be a professor.
1	A friend of mine came to see me when he was quite drunk.
0	When our religion teacher presented shocking sectarian thoughts á and doom's day as official teaching.
5	When a friend, after being free of drugs for half a year, started á using them again.á 
5	At an unjust insult or injure.
5	I feel sad when I see things done against men and nothing could á stop it - at least I think so.
6	After having failed my driving test.
2	A terrible cloud-burst started when we were camping in a tent on á a great bald field.
4	It was the weekend of my homecoming. I saw my sister for the á first time in 3 months. She's my best friend and extremely close.
6	It was discovered that I had received a warning letter as my á G.P.A was very low.
6	A person (a male) told me that he liked me.  He has a problem, he á is a homosexual.
3	I went shopping with my mother and sister (17 years old). Mother á always told my sister what she should buy. Instead of assisting á my sister in defending herself against mother's interference, I á just behaved aggressively towards my sister.
2	I was watching a movie alone - it was a horror movie. The music á was a deep pulsing type - not really music. And a light flashed á on and off. It was in the complete darkness of a movie theatre á that was almost empty.
3	When my father (physically handicapped) asks me to do something á and I raise several objections. Often I can fix it in few á moments.
4	When, after a long time of searching I got my first job.
4	"When I recently managed to get my first consulting assignment á \myself\"" i.e on my own initiative."""
5	When I learned that two of my friends had had a serious car accident.
2	A rainy day, I was cycling downhill and a car door suddenly á opened and while trying to avoid it the back wheels of my bike á got caught in the tram tracks.  I somersaulted but had no á injuries.
0	We had to move to a very different city because the company where á my father worked also moved to that place. It was very difficult á for me to make new friends than.
3	I was driving my parents' car into a carpark in front of a shop á we own, and scraped the corner of the front panel on the back á corner of my father's utility. I didn't tell anyone, I lied about á the bump (later I had to confess).
6	I tried to pass an examination particularly well, but I did it á worse than ever. I felt ashamed.
2	There was a scene of shooting in front of my house, I was very á afraid. Two armed men confronting. I didn't discover the reason á of the incident.
3	I felt guilt when I betrayed the person whom I loved.
1	Once while studying for my exam I found so many complicated words á that it disgusted me.
3	Beating my brother up.
4	When I passed my MSCE Exams and was selected to go to college.
5	When I got separated from the woman I loved.
2	I was afraid before I went to the doctor's.
2	When I dreamt that my family was in trouble and was facing many á difficulties.
2	I was afraid of moving away from home and moving to Helsinki for á my studies.
5	Sadness - this is an emotion which I have felt very often á recently. I can't remember a concrete example. I will describe my á general impression from severl situations which evoked this á feeling in me.
5	I was not chosen for the All English class.
4	When I succeeded in achieving a scholarship for which I had á strived hard during a period of financial, personal and physical á stress.
2	I was afraid to walk through the forest one day when I dropped á off the bus around 6.30 pm.
6	I was sitting in a restaurant with friends. They asked me á something which they thought I should know. Actually I know it, á but at that time I was not able to remember it.
5	When I see children on T.V from areas devastated by drought and á war.
1	A friend's boy-friend treated her very badly, let her serve him, á provoked her and just utilized her.
5	I found a baby opposum on the road and took it home and cared for á it for a week. It had to be force-fed and carried in a fur pouch á under my jersey. My father had the vet put it to sleep as he said á they carried diseases.
2	I was scared of water when I was a child.
6	When I overslept for the second time on the day I had an á examination.
2	When my father was very drunk and raging at home.
3	The day I decided to get out of my house I saw in my brother's á eyes that they blamed me for the situaiton.
3	I had spent the weekend visiting relatives and friends and didn't á study for Anatomy class on Monday.
5	To buy a car and didn't like the business and the car.
1	With the N.Z. Rugby Union wanting to send the All Blacks to South á Africa.
5	My uncle died - I felt sad at the funeral.
4	I won the country ski championship.
6	When I dated my friend's boyfriend after they had broken up.
0	A person close to me mistook my good intentions for bad, and á therefore associated unpleasant traits to me.
6	Not doing well in the examn.
4	When I was selected for higher education, i.e grade 7 to formI.
3	At my temporary job, I have to restrict  others' actions and make á them obey me, and this very often gives me  a feeling of guilt.  I á wish there could be some other way of acting.
3	My friend came to the concert for my sake as it was me who had á organized it and the concert was unsuccessful.
3	When I do not put in the needed amount of hours of work or study á for the day, I feel guilty and try to make up for the lost á time.
4	When I was admitted to the Sofia University.
1	I heard part of a conversation in which one talked very low about á women.
6	I had just masterbated with another boy.
1	Saw two Canadian students boasting about how rich they are in á Canada.
5	The sudden death of one of my parents.
5	Death in the close family.
2	I was walking from my friend's house, a few blocks from my house, when a á car began to follow me. He waited I passed by it rotateed a little and á stopped on my way. I changed completely my way and the car went á on following me until I turned at a corner and running I hid in a á garden of a house, waiting for the car to pass by. I went back home á terribly afraid.
4	When my girl and I decided to get back together after our á separation.
5	When I was at school.
4	I got to know that I had been accepted at university.
3	I feel this feeling most often before me not before the others. á My outside is iron but actually I'm wasting away.
3	When I lost my study grant without having attended any exam in á the career I had started, and it was too late to cancel my registration.
2	When the robbers broke in, at night.
5	We had to finish the life of our 8 year-old dog.
0	The trick was really intolerable.  They hid it, and I was worried á and restless all day.  When I saw them I really wanted to slap á each one of them.
4	I felt joy when I heard that I was accepted for the Free á University in Driebergen.
1	"As a child, when I saw an \unesthetic\"" sight."""
3	When I was made to feel responsible for the emotional state a friend of á mine was in.
5	A dear friend was removed from the division whre I work.
0	A friend had promised to call me at a certain time. I expected á his call impatiently but in vain.
4	Finished a difficult midterm.
2	When I had to travel alone, unescorted for the first time.     It á was an over-night journey by train to a distant place.
3	When I was driving my car, I wanted to pick something from the á floor of the car and drove into the guide-rail. I thought that I á should not have done that and felt guilty.
1	"When I got  grade \C\"" in M160 at the end of my first year at á UNZA.  I had expected a \""C+\"" or a \""B\"" as M160 is easy, going by my á capacity in mathematics."""
0	I had studied for almost one week for my physics-examination. á With difficulty I passed the examn. I was angry about the teacher á and also about myself because I had not remembered enough during á the examn and because the time that I spent studying was wasted.
6	We had made an appointment to complete together a piece of work. á It appeared that I was the only one who hadn't prepared anything.
1	I have experienced disgust with some people - usually double á dealers.
1	NO RESPONSE
5	When I was six years old, my favourite cat died.
6	When I had to prepare and read a paper to my fellow students but á I didn't cope with the task.
1	When I was a teacher in an evening school, a girl raised a lot of á questions and expressed her opinions.  She, very often, took a á stand which was different from mine and she thought that it á was better than mine.  Her opinions were helpful academically, but  á she did not take into consideration my position in public.  Also á she seemed to be very talkative and so she disgusted me.
4	The joy came to me when I heard that I was going to start a á Medical course at the Lilongwe School for Health Sciences.
1	Being mistreated by my former primary school teacher, Mr Zalu.
0	A certain person started to say dreadful things very calmly, I á felt hurt and disgusted.
0	During a family discussion on my future and my prospects as a á student, they accused me of not bothering about looking for a job to á assume my financial situation.
1	Someone acting stupid in public.
6	I had been telling lies and people discovered instantly that I á was telling lies. I felt very shameful and I felt like á disappearing from people.
1	I was looking for an object when I came across a rotten corpse of á a rat.
1	"I saw a movie called \The Thing\"", the film directed by John á Carpenter.  The monster in the film made me feel disgusted."""
3	Before an accident, my aunt offered me the front seat of the car, á next to the driver. I declined, she took that seat and was killed á there when the car crashed.
5	When I got to know that my father had passed away.
1	After learning on the news about this man who killed more than á 300 women and habitually copulated into their inert bodies.
4	For about one year I had a rather bad relation with my father. á Last Christmas Eve he invited me to stay withhim and I was very á glad about it. It was a fine evening.
5	I was having breakfast with a classmate and suddenly I began to á cry as I thought of a friend of mine whom I had not seen for a á long time.
0	And she said absurd things, false things that filled my ears and á inflated my head which seemed to be caught in a carcass where the á heart wanted to explode and where the arm wanted to knock down á the world.
2	A fear of lack of personal powers.
3	Not handing in homework in time.
2	While watching TV (a war movie), I felt a strong fear of death, á threat and fear of loosing people close to me.
2	While cycling in the country a dog started running beside me, á growling and barking, and trying to bite my foot.
1	When my husband quarrelled with me for no reason at all.
6	When my new jeans split while I was with the youth group.
2	After I was thrown out of a car in an accident, this resulted in á a fracture.
5	When my dog died.
0	When my girlfriend left me to go out with another guy, even á though she knew that she was wrong.
1	When I have seen people very drunk and making fools of á themselves.
2	I was on my surf ski. Rather large waves to strong current á separated me from my ski and we both began to drift slowly á (actually rather quickly) away to sea. The direction I was á drifting in was taking me straight over a reef on which rather á large sharks were constantly being caught. (I was alone with no á one to help me).
6	Lying to my grandparents about visiting my boyfriend in Chico.
5	My grandfather died, I went to the mortuary and saw the corpse.
6	When I did poorly on a test and I knew that there wasn't an á excuse for not doing better. Made mistakes I could not believe I á made.
0	Once a friend had pushed me and I had fallen on to a window which á then broke.  I was taken to tthe principal's office and he á accused me of having broken the window.
3	NO RESPONSE.
5	When my beloved girlfriend got married to another person.
3	I always feel guilty when I see my mother sad or fed up with á life. I really dont know the reason.
1	I felt some disgust for my boyfriend for a time, after he had á left me.
2	When my neighbour's house was broken into and shots could be á heard.
1	I was disgusted at the university wanting some of us to travel á from our homes to the lectures here every day.  The way the whole á thing was handled disgusted me.
5	I was at home alone when I realized that a young roe approached á our house. I hid because I did not want to frighten it. It á limped. Some time later, when I thought that it had already run á away, I saw it lying on our terrace. I came nearer and saw that á it was terribly wounded. I informed the ranger who said that the á roe must have been attacked by dogs. He had to shoot it.
5	A) A documentary in which baby fur seals were being á clubbed/spiked to death by Canadian seal-hunters. Brutally á graphic. B) Description of a disfigured orphaned child in Hiroshima á calling for her mother.
6	We were discussing a subject ( I knew very little about it) and I á was holding my ground.  They showed me that I was wrong.
0	When I was charmed by my relatives.
6	I feel ashamed when I act dishonestly toward somebody.
6	When I realized that my bathing suit was spotted, I had became á menstruated.
4	When I understood that I was admitted to the University.
3	This feeling of guilt really applies to moral/religious views. I á (being Catholic) went against what I was brought up to believe in á and had a sexual relationship with my boyfriend. Many months á later, when I was doing some deeper self analysis I began to feel á guilty and realized that I had gone against what I wanted for á myself and my future.
3	When my boyfriend asked me to go out with him and I refused á because I wanted to go out with another guy.  I did go out and my á boyfriend found out.
4	The first time I really fell in love with a girl.
3	I felt guilty when once I made my mother angry.
0	When my room-mate was making noise deliberately, by playing a á flute early in the morning while I was trying to study.
0	My parents were having a typical family argument.  I came in and á saw the scene and became angry.
1	Heard someone boasting his fortune telling and I knew he was á lying.
6	I had a short lasting sexual relationship with someone I didn't á love.
6	I am troubled by hair growing in my neck. I was troubled by this á for a long time and was much ashamed when someone brought his/her á hands close to my face.
2	[ While approaching to test the situation.]
3	When I am in an environment or with a person much worse off than á me, I realize how privileged I am.
4	I felt it when I received a letter telling that I had been á classified in a national concourse of p... I felt happy and á vanity about it.
6	"A friend of mine has not very much money. Therefore, once I á stayed with him and his girlfriend, I bought some meat, but nobody á wanted to go and prepare it for dinner. My friend said \I thought á you wanted to invite us for dinner\"". \""Of course\"", I said, but I á thought by myself that it must have been enough that I had bought á it."""
2	In 1977 when my friend was caught by a crocodile.  We were á swimming in a river on whose banks our primary school was á situated.  When my friend was caught, he was on the banks of the á river and some of us were still in the middle of the river.  I á was very frightened.
5	I met again a very good friend after a year and realized that á there had grown a certain distance between us.
3	Getting a D in a class last semester and knowing it was because I á didn't study.
1	Reading about executions and massacres which happened during á World War II, I felt disgust towards those who did it.
4	After intercourse.
2	I was hunting, and was lost in the fog in the mountains.
0	Anger at doctors for their treatment of me after giving birth. á They left part of placenta behind and I bled heavily for twelve á weeks - due to this, I felt weak and emotional, and they said I á needed psychiatric treatment and give me no support.
6	Getting drunk and creating a lot of trouble at a place I respect á - my friend's home.
5	I was very sad when I heard that my Auntie had passed away.
3	"When I was in the fifth class the rating was done in our á mark-books. I hadn't been examined yet but I had heard from my á classmates about the scolding they had got at home. My first á mark was in geography - good 4. I judged I had known for more á than that and I put down \very good\"" for fear of being scolded. á Naturally my parents guessed all about it. They rebuked me for á what I had done."""
6	Being insulted in public.
6	During the lesson the teacher called me and asked me if I had á reported that I was late.  I pretended that I had but looking at á her eyes I knew that she knew that I was lying.  I thought that á it was really bad luck that she had examined the list of the á students who were late.
4	When I met again a great friend and talked a little while with á him. When I see again another I miss.
3	[ No response.]
2	I borrowed a car which was supposed to be used for a long journey á a few hours later, and one of the tyres burst in the middle of á the town and I did not know what to do.
0	When I found out that my sister had been playing with my á confidential things which she had taken from my hand-bag.
4	I experienced it when I was accepted at the Medical Higher á Institute.
0	[ When I do not get any co-operation from my friends/partners.]
0	When a cousin of mine took my bottle of T.B tablets, put water in á it and threw it in the dust-bin.
5	It was when my father was taken into detention by the CIDS for á two years for a reason I don't know up to now.
0	Something was stolen.
3	When I deny something to my sister and after a while I feel sorry á and try to bypass the situation.
3	 In some special circumstances l lied to my parents, then felt á guilty so I told them the truth and felt free.
6	Once by coincidence I clutched a stranger (in a rather intimate á way), thinking it was my boyfriend. When by hindsight I á feel ashamed when thinking about it.
6	[ No response.]
5	My father died last year after an 8-week severe illness.
4	A few days ago, I hitch-hiked to Arnhems with a friend. á Everything went well: they picked us up very quickly, the sun was á shining, I was feeling free and, for the first time after long á time, happy. I really had the feeling that I was living at full á speed.
6	When I forgot a promise made to a friend of mine.
2	While I was waiting for them to give me the marks of the most á difficult subject this year.
2	When I was walking along a road alone on my way to go shopping.
4	Having a good trip on a boat with good friends.
5	Guy I cared for went back to Canada to live.
6	China cannot let you give more lectures because you are needed in á the specialist clinics. We are so backward in medicine.
2	I was playing with friends then I decided to splash some sand á into a car which was moving nearby. The driver got angry and came á to report to my parents.
5	My relationship with a boyfriend was finished and I didn't á succeed a years-course.
4	When I was at school, no one thought I could pass my MCE so at á the end of the year my name was announced on the radio that I had á passed. I was the happiest person.
5	When I had to leave my mother and my sister after a week's visit.
4	After having considered it for hours I was able to overcome my á scruples and to call a friend with whom I had fallen in love. I á realized that my decision was right - and was very glad.
4	When the results of the part I exams came out I felt tremendous á joy in my heart.  The results came out after a long period of á worry and anxiety, so it gave me endless relief and joy.
6	When I try to lie.
5	When I missed the chance of becoming a graduate in mining á engineering, after having prayed one week in the church I was á not even selected.
6	I had lied to a person because I had thought that I could not á tell him the truth. When he found out he was not angry but á understanding. We talked the whole thing over.
0	When a relative, who had come to our place, created untidyness á and dirtyness.
2	I felt fear once, when the car in which I travelled directed á towards the precipice along the road.
0	[ I sometimes quarrel with my mother because she blames me, á though I have not in any way been connected to some events.]
3	I had a quarrel with my father. He was depressed, because á somebody had treated him injustly. As we had an argument, it was á impossible for me to help him.
6	In a restaurant, I made the acquaintance of a boy who always told á the same things in a very loud voice. I laughed and said to him á that he always repeated the same things. Some time later I heard á that he had undergone a complicated brain operation.
1	Disgust for a person who treated me badly, and has treated other á people similarly - including lying, hiding facts, being á deceitful, unfair, etc.
4	When I was finally qualified for my profession.
3	After an exam I was in a very bad mood as I had done it very       á badly.  At home, my mother took so long to ask me how things had  á gone that I lost my temper.  I overreacted and made my mother cry. á She still prepared lunch for me and did not scold me .  Suddenly, á I thought that it was my fault and I started crying.  á 
5	When I learnt of the death of a friend.
5	When I crashed my car and it had to be scrapped then.  It was my á fault and I feel depressed as I miss the car.
0	Someone told me we are not as good as the All English Class.
1	When some people, including me, are treated in a way which á equates them to an animal or a thing.
6	A much older man took advantage of me during my childhood (four á to eight years of age).
4	When I thought that my high school love and I had a mutual á emotion.
3	I was in grade seven and my class was planning a protest against á a rude and immoral teacher.  I sneaked out and told the á headmaster about it and so the plan was foiled.
2	I felt something close to that when I saw that there was a man on á the terrace of the flat.
1	I was disgusted at the way the bus conductor threw out an old á woman oiut of the mini-bus simply because she could not pay the á fare for her luggage.
0	When a so-called friend let me down, when she promised to tell me á when a certain concert was occurring, and that she'd get me á tickets. I was really looking forward to it. She did nothing, á just told me out of the blue one day what a fantastic concert it á was going to be.
1	"I once got a phone call stating \one of your friend is in jail, á please come and see him\"".  When I went to the jail and saw him, I á was disgusted."""
5	The fact that my mother is getting married again (my mother and á father divorced about 15 years ago) means that she will probably á move to Turku, and our home, which is a one family house, will be á sold (I myself have not been living at home for the past six á years).
5	When my grandfather died. When I heard about his death, I had a á bad feeling in my stomach and I felt as if I had lost something á very precious.
3	I thought that I could have avoided the above situation (the one á in fear) if I had concentrated more on my work, which I hate.
2	I was walking in the countryside alone when I came across two á dogs who began barking at me.  I did not know whether they were á tied up or loose, but I was afraid of them approaching me.
0	In the holiday cottage of our association, two of my pals came to á wake me up early one morning by bringing a radio played at the á highest volume into my room - it was the morning service at its á loudest.
2	The same situation as with sadness. I was afraid about what my á parents would further do to distroy my relationship.
1	At the crowded conditions of living.  I always quarrel with my á elder brother as he puts the T.V volume at a deafening level and á I can not practise my piano lessons.  Thus I feel that my home is á disgusting.
0	When an unknown person provoked me verbaly and physically.
1	When I saw a woman subjugated by money and not being able to hide á how she hated herself for not having the will power to get out of á such a situation because it was convenient, according to what she á told me.
1	When I knew that a person who I didn't like, had about me other á feelings.
5	From the fact that my husband and I are not in good terms.
6	My father insulted by other people.
4	When my brother was born.
5	A colleague's 17 year old daughter is seriously ill with cancer á and has only a year to live.  I  heard about it 6 weeks ago.
2	When I could not find my 2 year old daughter.  I ran and looked á for her everywhere and could not find her.  (I finally found her, á she had gone to bed to sleep)
3	I borrowed my classmate's notebook one week before the á examination and I promised to give it back to her in two days á time.  I was very busy at that time and forgot many things; as I á was not very often at home she could not contact me.  When I á started my revision I realized that her notebook had been on my á desk for five days.  I contacted her immediately and gave it back á to her.  Though she did not say anything I felt very guilty.
5	Death of a relative.
5	A close relative was at odds with a very powerful firm.  All his á things had been taken, His dad had died a little before this á event.  He gathhered his children and vowed to give them a good á life with a new start - the words were hollow, he bit back his á tears .....I asked to be excused and then went and cried in the á loo.
4	I won a car in a prize-competition. The moment I was informed á about it, I felt joy.
3	A certain colleague of mine sent me to buy a bag of flour for him, á he gave me K20. Unfortunately I lost it.
2	When I was looking for a job I felt a lot of fear but the fear á was greater when I found it.
6	I saw a skid-row (chronical) alcoholic and I was ashamed of the á people with a high standard of living.
0	I was told to do something I did not want to do.
6	My love and me rented a room in a hotel one evening.  We stayed á there a few hours and when leaving the hotel, I felt ashamed.
6	I was made a very sharp remark at a rehearsal.
1	At a Sm÷rgasbord table, a man mixed differnet kinds of picked á herrings with fruit salad.
0	I had an accident with a trafic police car that was packed at a á curve without any visibility and against all traffic regulations á in a strong snowstorm. As a result I still cannot repair my car á because of the missing spare parts.
4	When my affairs with the girl I love settled positively.
6	When my boyfriend revealed that he knew that I had discovered á things of an important nature about him, I felt ashamed as I had á not mentioned it earlier.
5	When a close friend, residing in the hostel, lost his father I á really pittied him and the situation made me feel sad.
2	[ In an aeroplane.]
2	Risk of being involved in a fight after a party.
0	When I come home in the evening, the first thing I do is to sit á down and smoke a cigarette. One day I found the flat in a totally á desolate state. My girl-friend had wanted to tidy up but had not á finished.
4	When I was accepted as a student of Psychology here at á Gutttenburg.
5	Death of my grandmother.
6	When I told a lie to a friend of my sister on April fool's day.  á She later came to see me and told me that it was a very foolish á thing to do.
0	I felt anger when I saw that I was being misleaded by my á boyfriend, he went out with other girls. I felt anger for his á falsity.
6	My boyfriend's mother, whom I had not met earlier, made an á unexpected visit.  I was lying lazily on the bed, reading a á newspaper and my boyfriend was studying.
0	Last night - finding that someone in the house had eaten an á entire packet of almonds I had bought for a family treat.
0	When I came for the lesson, it was cancelled and I had to fill in á a questionnaire instead.
0	The sight of a man who ran amok (fighting) at a dance.
5	When I got separated from the man I loved so much.
4	When I was accepted at UNZA.
3	When my ex-husband left our house, and the children cried because á he was not coming back.
5	This issue worried me rather than saddening me.  In mid September á I went to Guanggho alone.  I was looking for an accomodation in á the evening and after having walked 2 or 3 miles I still could not á find anything.  What could I do?  I was not worried about á sleeping on the streets but because of some procedural problems.  á I finally found a place to sleep at 8 o'clock.
1	I feel disgust with my first boyfriend who made fun of our love á in an abominable way.
0	I was angry about how the government acted concerning Hainburg, á especially when I saw a discussion about it on TV.
6	I had promised to help out with domestic chores and I forgot á about it.
2	When armed robbers broke into our house at night.
0	[ No response.]
2	When I was going home, I saw somathing which looked like a snake   á on the road but later I found out that it was only a stick.
1	When an acquaintance of mine told me about the way his parents á treated their sons in an unequal manner.  The most successful of á them got continuous encouragement, and the youngest was not á encouraged and was rejected.
0	A lady I live with had not bothered to clean up before she went   á on holiday (I live in a collective).
6	When I was 15 my mother discovered various items in my room which á 15 year olds aren't usually expected to have - mainly alcohol, á marijuana and contraceptives !
3	When an event took place in another's life and which I thought I á could have avoided.
5	4 years ago my family decided to move from New York to á California. From the time we decided to move until the time we á left, I realized how much my friends cared for me. When we left á and for a long time after that I was very sad.
0	I felt anger at my last exam, I felt angry with our teacher, á because he did not rate me objectively and I failed.
2	I was afraid when my boyfriend came home because my parents á disapproved him of his coming home. I thought they would chase me á out of the house.
3	I felt guilty last year during the winter term exams. A colleague á of mine asked me to give him my lecture notes (I had very good á notes and I had passed my exam in advance) but I still don't know á why I didn't give them to him. That colleague failed and he was á on the verge of not passing it at the supplementary examinations.
6	I made a very insulting remark against a person whom I care for á very much. This event was caused by a third person who didn't á like the person I insulted.
2	Fear of punishment for having broken an item of value to my á parents.
4	When my present boyfriend asked me initially to go out with him I á had waited a long time for this to occur.
4	After waiting impatiently for the results of the form 5 á examinations for almost a year, at last I received a letter of á acceptance from the Senate of the university of Zambia telling á me that I had made it to the first year course at UNZA.
4	When I won an unexpected sum of money.
3	Once while playing tennis with my classmate I lost a few tennis á balls.  I found one near the tennis court and took it to be mine á despite thinking that it might belong to the student in the next á court.  I felt guilty.  Later someone came to me to claim the á ball and I gave it back to him.
3	It happens to me quite often. I can't describe a particular case.
3	When I failed an exam for which I knew that I had not studied á hard enough.
5	When my sister (really my niece) died of cancer at the age of 2 á yrs after I took her to the doctor at the age of 1 and he á diagnosed it.
6	I was ashamed when my classmates discovered that I fell in love á with an uneducated girl.
6	Some time ago I promised to meet an acquaintance of mine and to á carry him some promised papers. I haven't done it until this day. á Now I feel quite awkward when I meet him.
6	I was carried away while talking about my visits abroad and I á tended to boast a little, till I realized that the listener was á amused.
5	I was in love with a girl but had to separate from her because of á different commitments concerning life and career.  I loved her as á a person but could not agree with the life the future would á demand.  Parting from her was very sad.
6	No specific instances - perhaps having lied as a child resulting á in someone else being blamed for the event.
5	I feel sadness when I only imagine that I could lose a close á person. Some time ago I lost a man whom aI greatly respected.
4	I met a friend I had not seen for a long time on the street.
2	I fear before each exam.
2	Because of a conflict with my parents there was a possibility to á interrupt my studies.
3	When I don't fulfill my obligations.
1	A study visit to a chicken factory : the butchery, the smell, á the environment and the noise.
5	"When my grandmother died - I wasn't sad so much that she'd died á because she was old, but because she lived in the last few years á in an old people's home and had nothing very much that was hers - á no chair, or private space, and when I went to visit she would be á sitting in the \lliving\"" room the TV room. It was hopeless. And I á felt awkward so I didn't go and I was sad 'cos how I couldn't."""
6	I felt it when I felt that I was being observed as an object of á pleasure (sexual) when I opened and took off a shirt in a á classroom at P.V.C.
5	Losing close people and animals. So far, I've felt most when á losing our dog in a traffic accident.
4	My son was born.
5	When I found out that I could not go to the concert (after buying á the tickets) because of a biology test which occurred the morning á after.
0	This was when I found out that a cousin of mine had taken away my á trousers without my consent.
3	In neglecting some work that had to be done around the house and á telling my roommate I would get it done.
6	Meeting other friends who got in the good universities.
4	Last year I passed the B.A exams in Psychology in which I stood first á in my class.  Thus I got the first prize from the college.  I was á most happy to tell all this to my parents and friends.
5	My grandfather died. He lived almost as a recluse not caring for á himself as well as he should - Dad and we all helped as much as á we could, but it didn't save him from himself. It was an á unexpected death. His second de facto wife was lucky she wasn't á jailed.
2	I was jogging in the forest, in the central park area, when I saw á a man hiding behind a tree.  I got frigthened, turned around and á ran out of the forest.
3	I spend the night with my boyfriend, while there was also a á friend of his. We all lay on the floor to sleep. When my á boyfriend was fallen asleep the other boy and I started petting. á After 15 minutes I felt miserable and awoke my boyfriend to tell á him that.
1	[ No response.]
3	When I hurt a person's feelings.
6	A few years back I had proposed love to a girl who later turned out á to be related to me.  Though we were in love with each other, we á both felt ashamed and withdrew from each other.
1	Last week a former school (secondary) mate of mine, who is now in á a differentt school came to my room here at UNZA in my absence.  á He was drunk and he vomited in my room.  I was unhappy.
2	When mother was very ill, I feared that she would die.
5	Christmas Eve: there was a tension between my parents, they did á not even try to restore a harmonic atmosphere. Mother stayed in á her room almost the whole day. I felt alone and was very sad.
2	Being threatened by another person.
3	When my sister had the opportunity to do some modelling work. And á I was quite jealous - later on the photographer decided not to á take her photograph, and she was very upset - I felt guilty as a á result, almost as if I had caused her to lose her opportunity, by á not being genuinely happy for her in the first place.
6	When I had not done well in Geography at my MCE I was expected to á get more than I did.
6	Finding out that China is backward in science.
5	Finding out that China is poor, so we cannot have good reference á books.
5	When my family and I heard of the death of my grandfather.  We had á  seen him a few weeks earlier and it seemed that he had just been á waiting to see us.
6	I had a misunderstanding with my father and after some time I á found that I had been wrong.
1	When my grandmother came to stay with us permanently as she is a á very difficult person to stay with and when she started telling á false stories about us to other people.
0	When I was studying in the library - preparing for a test, two á people sitting next to me talked to each other for 20 minutes.  á There were no other seats so I could not go elsewhere and I did   á not want to interrupt them, so I could only be angry in my heart.
6	When taking part in the mobbing of one of my best friends in á primary school.
4	I felt joyful when my boyfriend met me at the station, while at á first he had said that he would not do that.
3	I feel guilty when when I realize that I consider material things á more important than caring for my relatives.  I feel very á self-centered.
0	People not cueing in the dining hall.
0	When I spoke to Jan-Erik Wikstr÷m on the telephone. 
5	Getting separated from my girlfriend.
3	Some time ago I slapped my son without trying to understand who á the real culprit of a damage was. After that I felt guilty and á bad but it was too late.
6	Once in a public ladies room, I opened the door of a cubicle that á was taken, although it was not locked.
2	I was so sick that my relatives thought that I was bewitched.  I á felt like dying.
1	I lived together with my boyfriend. One night he stayed away and á next day he told me that he had chat up with another girl.
1	Waiting for a bus not coming for a long time, and the bus drivers á were having a long lunch.
6	I had been away all night without having told my parents about á it.  In the morning when I came home, my mother looked tired.  á She said that she had been awake all night because of me and that á she was angry and disappointed.
4	When I passed the B.A exams with first class results.
0	I am a school teacher.  One of the classes does not obey me at all, á keeps on talking, does no work.  One afternoon, everything went á wrong, and I got exceedingly angry.
0	My mother treated me unjustly as if I was a little child. I said á mean things. I was unable to defend myself adequately.
1	Normally my father never tells vulgar jokes, we do not speak á about sexual things, too. But once he told such a vulgar joke, á that I was really disgusted. He did not tell me, but some of his á friends, but I was present.
4	Article published in the college newspaper.
1	While walking in town I noticed how the police harrassed a man á who was under the influence of alcohol.  They terrified him with á the thought of arrest by driving close behind him on a pedestrian á street.  My disgust was directed at the gestures and the facial á expressions of the policemen; they seemed to be enjoying á themselves.
0	[ After an examine I had been satisfied with.]
4	When I was accepted into the medical school.  Medicine is a á profession that I have desired ever since my childhood.
3	I felt guilty of revealing a secret to my in-law. I told her that á my brother and I had gone to disconight which is a thing my á brother didn't want to let her know. Later my brother was accused á of spending a night out.
0	I could not find my monthly tickets for the bus when I was on the á bus.
6	When I failed the grade 7.
3	I told my elder brother that he was irresponsible and that I did á not care for what he did because he was teasing me.
3	When I cheated my father about the book allowance at university.  á He discovered that we were given K150 per year for books.
2	I felt it at the same time when I felt disgust.
6	My father died after two very painful weeks in bed. I felt á relieved, and was ashamed of that.
6	A month ago I turned in an English paper in late after I had á already had a previous paper late and promised not to do it á again.
3	Our class had organized a picnic in November.  I was the class á representative so I became the organizor.  However the picnic á was postponed by one week and I had something else to do then. á Initially I did not ponder on what to do and decided to go for á the picnic.  When I had the time to think about it I thought that á my decision was wrong.  My classmates thought that I would go as á I had signed my name but I did not go.  I told another class á representative that I was not going but he did not know the á reason behind my not going.  After the picnic my classmates asked á me why I had not gone to the picnic and everytime someone á mentioned it I was apologetic.  I should have decided right in á the begining that I would not go and then they would not see me á as irresponsible i.e promising to go and changing my mind á afterwards.
1	The way my husband and his family treated me - unfairly, cruelly, á and unjustly.
5	When I heard the news that my brother had passed away.  It was á the first time that I lost a brother.
5	When my dog died.
2	When I was working in Delhi, I had gone alone to see the hostel á where I would be residing.
1	When an alcoholic stood dribbling over a food counter.
4	Being together with my best friend.
6	I wrote a letter to my father to ventilate my bottled up á feelings. Afterwards I thought it was too negative.
0	[ Ther are many instances which are all equally irritating.]
0	Argument with roommate over a lock he had put on kitchen cupboard á without telling anyone.
3	When I acted in a negative way at a certain moment by laziness á to concede a moment of the time I thought to be my own.
2	When I saw a horror film.
6	I do not seem to feel emotion such as shame, guilt or fear - far á out !
4	When I gave birth to my son and saw that he was alive and that I á had managed it well.  He was born a month too early with a á malfunctioning lung.  This happened a year ago.
0	Getting terrible meals, but paying heaps for them.
6	My son was apprehended for shoplifting at the age of 14. Because á I too had been apprehended at the same age I felt the shame of á not having been able to prevent my son from acting in the same á way.
5	I felt it when I was at home and saw a discussion without sense á between my parents.
0	My grandmother's brother had taken active part in the resistance á movement. He had been in prison many times and there he lost his á health. He became an invalid. When we phoned to First Aid the á nurse on duty behaved quite unkindly when she understood how old á he was (79).
6	I feel guilty as I am not working, and even my studies are not á progressing.
1	A colleague of mine asked a lecturer to put him a higher mark in á order to keep his good mards and thus to continue getting a á scholarship for an excellent grade.
0	"I am one of four directors of a company. We inherited land held á by our family - ours is the 5th generation. A \democratic\"" á decision was made to stap-bank an area of mangroves."""
5	The disqualification of two of my mates in the military service.
5	When I woke up after a nightmare.
0	In a discussion the leader wanted to stop because she was of the á opinion that we were not involved and she misjudged our reactions á as negative. We however only posed several questions which she á couldn't answer.
0	"I had been having a heated argument with a lover - whose á intention was that we should marry in the near future - and was á rejected by her when I started to cry. When I stopped crying for á a moment she said \There, have you got it all out now ?\""."""
5	When I came to know that my grandmother had died.  She was very á close to me.
3	In a playground I was playing at the seesaw with a little niece. á I wanted to stop but nobody came to help me. When I got off, all á alone the seesaw fell down with a big smash. My niece got hurt á above her eye. Now there is a scar.
5	Recently, my sister-in-law's horse was poisoned by a plant and á died. The horse was very obedient and exceptional with children.
1	Cueing in the students dining hall.
4	When I achieved my first 6 at University after a long string of á 3's, 4's and 5's (7 is the highest mark awarded, 3 is a conceded á pass).
3	"The same event described under \shame\""."""
5	When my grandmother died after a long illness.
2	I was walking through a thick forest and there was a big snake at á a distance of about four metres.
6	The morning after a wild party.
5	My girlfriend who had spent 6 months abroad broke off our á relationship by letter.
3	When I was 4-5 years old my mother gave me some parts of a á chocolate bar and ordered me to bring it to my father working á outside. On my way I could not resist the temptation and ate it á myself.
6	Saw a beggar on the street (China still so poor).
5	I felt sad when a thief stole all the clothes from my friend's á cupboard at school (boarding).
2	Climbing a mountain, I got stuck and realized I could get neither á up nor down.
0	When somebody stole my brother's disco machine.
4	My 21st birthday celebration, when I cut the cake and received á the presents.
2	Before an examn.
5	I was watching a sad film and it affected me deeply.
5	I slept in a tent at the Barracks which caught fire at night and á my best possessions got burnt in there.
0	When my partner was attacked and lost three teeth.
5	I wrote a letter to my boyfriend but he couldn't answer it in á time so as a defence mechanism I just found that I felt so sad á about it and couldn't talk to anyone.
6	I passed on some gossip that was untrue and cause two friends to á have a fight who were already experiencing difficulties with each á other.
4	Found out my wife (girl-friend?) pregnant.
5	Relative's death.
1	I felt disgust with a lady teacher who used to nag, to mock, to á interrupt everyone of my fellow students each time we had a class á with her in our first year.
0	When, for example, I was not approved to continue my studies at á the Moscow University, no matter that I had the highest marks and á in general the best records of all the candidates.
2	I was walking home with a friend at night along a quiet street.  á Something started rustling in the bush : it was an exhibitionist.
6	"I was talking with an aunt of mine that I adore and I found á courage to say \I love you\"" and just after that came the shame."""
1	Saw someone who picked up a cigarette from the floor and smoked á it.
2	When my relationship with my family is very poor I often fear á being excluded from the group, a fear which is stronger in á situations when an argument is on hand.
6	When I was 12 years old, some friends of our family had come to á watch TV. I lay on the floor and moved my pelvis. When the other á people had gone, my mother told me that it had looked as if I had á wanted to make sex.
2	Few days ago I really experienced fear. It was connected with á unexpected actions on the part of a group of people. This evoked á in me many negative emotions.
0	"Last semester when I dated a girl whom I've known for almost a á year. However one night she said she wanted us to be \just á friends\"". I confided this to a friend Jim I was really suffering. á A month or two later he broke up with his old girlfriend and they á started going out regularly. I have no girlfriend nor have I had á a romantic relationship of any significance. I feel some anger á but we are friends again."""
2	On May 20th I got a summon to appear in court on May 28th 1985 on á the subject of impregnanting a school girl. I really feared of á standing in the court in a few days time after this notice. I was á also embarassed due to formal approach that was expected of me to á the Principal.
3	[ No response.]
2	When I first sat for an entrance examination.
1	I was an instructior in a youth organization.  Whenever we, the á instructors would have a meeting the advisor would be present.  á He did not understand our worknig conditions but talked a lot á and had a lot of outdated ideas.  Whenever we disagreed with him á he was very discontent and said that we had a prejudice against á him.  Why did he have to treat us as his subordinates ?
1	Saw an arrogant girl walking pass by.
1	When my father shouted at me for going to a party with my sister.
1	When I am dirty because I have not had a shower for a few days.
1	"I happened to see the video-tape movie \This is America - Part á one\"" at my friend's place."""
2	When I was 7-8 years old, I woke up one night and found myself á alone at home.  My mother had gone out to buy cigarattes from a á machine.
6	I forgot that the course instructor had directed us to go for á special classes after the usual class hours.  I missed this the á first day and when he asked me about it the next day I said that á I had forgotten.
1	I saw a sort of black worm being attacked by many ants.
4	My old friend visited me in the university.
6	When I was caught telling a white lie.  At that time, I was not á allowed to stay outdoors after 8 p.m.  One day when I was late, I á made up a story that our neighbour had invited me to his place, á though I had actually forgotten about the time while playing with á my pals.
0	"When my father addressed me directly and maliciously, thus á including me in the \family war\""."""
4	I won the first prize at the science fair, the first of the kind á at school and I was only in form II then.  
5	When my first love was not successful.
2	When I went out with my dog in a forest late at night when we á were on a camping.
4	When my last year's second semester results came through - I was á ecstatic.
1	My husband falls ill and does not follow the doctor's advice on á the treatment or the diet control.
5	Getting separated from my family for a week caused me a sense of á sadness.
3	When I decided to move away from my parent's home, my mother told á me that it was as if a part of her had been torn out of her.
0	I suffer from a disease of my muscles. Therefore, I am only able á to attend lectures for half a day. So, sometimes I miss á obligatory lectures. However, the teachers do not take into á account my disease, and punish me with detention work, resulting in á an overload.
2	On my way through lonely streets I met with a huge stray dog. It á stopped at some distance and looked at me. I tried to ignore it á but I was very frightened.
2	When riding in a very fastly-driven car on a lose metal road at a á very late hour - no other cars on road, and driver was taking á corners very sharply. I felt afraid - because if an accident á happened, the area was very isolated. Also, I feared for driver, á after I was dropped off - would he make it home safely.
6	I was taking place in an anti nuclear protest and was shouting á protest loudly to some American sailors of the U.S. Texas á submarine. A guy came up to me and said that's your brother á screaming at, I felt shame and I realized screaming at another á person isn't good protesting. Now I'm a silent protester.
4	When they told me that I had got a study grant.
2	When I get into the tube or the train without paying for the á ticket.
6	When I saw my 18 year old son grab an oxygen mask as he had á breathing difficulties.  I had a bad conscience because I had not á stopped smoking.  Medication for the dilation of his breathing á tubes also caused a sense of guilt in me.
2	Introducing myself at a first tutorial this year at University.
2	When I was very young, one day, I was in the street with my á father and brother.   While my father was talking to some á friends, I saw a dog and began to pat it.  My father told me á sharply to stop doing it because the dog had mange.  Then my á brother told me that I would die and I could not stop crying á after this.
0	I had a quarrel with my father, because I was of the opinion that á he decided in an authoritarian way which TV program we should á watch. I became very angry and started throwing things through á the room.
2	While drinking a soft drink, I had the impression of swallowing   á a piece of glass so I went to the district hospital and got á admitted there.
6	When I was on holiday with my former boyfriend, he hit me and á behaved in a very evil and ugly manner in front of the hotel á personnel.
5	I tried my level best to care for my client, I took an á appointment with a doctor and before meeting the doctor he á expired - a poor small boy from Uttar Pradesh.
6	When my first sexual intercourse turned out to be a flop.  I was á in a panic and ended up without an erection.
6	When a friend from whom I preferred to hide my private life á discovered that I had relations with a man.
3	One day my mother went to visit her friends.  When she came back á she scolded me for not having kept the house in order, so I á decided not to talk to her.
4	When I was pressing figures on the curtain cloth. I had bought á the cloth after months of hindrances.
6	When I lied to my girlfriend, telling her that I had passed an á exam, when I actually did not even take it.
4	Seeing a close friend who had just returned from twelve months á overseas.
5	I last really felt sad when I left home for I was leaving all my á long time, pre-kindergarten relationships behind.
6	Once I answered my father rudely.
5	When I found out that a person I went to school with had died in á a car accident.
2	I had a dream about my fiancTe leaving me and making an end to á our relation.
4	Got in touch with earlier friends after a long absence.
2	I once felt that my last hour had come when I was unexpectedly found á in the hands of.
2	One night I had a feeling that somebody was stealing my car, á but I was too frightened to go and see.
1	When I was watching a movie with many violent episodes.  They á accurately showed the cutting of corpses, etc...
4	After watching the 49ers lose game after game, year after year, I á was finally rewarded with a Super Bowl victory which made me á extremely happy.
2	I was scared when I realized that I might miss the train which I á was supposed to take.  I was 1500 Kilometres away from home and when  á I heard the depart whistle I was still 150 feet away from the á train.  I finally made it.
0	My boy-friend had promised me to come home at about 10 p.m. He á did not return until midnight and had consumed a lot of alcohol.
5	I remember the day my father died. I was 11 years old and my á sadness was so great that until today I remember everything á about that day, from the clothes I was wearing to the reactions of people, á the despair of my mother and brother. It marked me a lot and was á the greatest sadness I felt.
4	An invitation to spend 5 days at the seaside with all expenses á paid.
4	I got a very good grade on one of my midterms a few weeks ago.
0	When some friends betrayed my friendship.
5	When my grandmother, my second mother died.
5	When I was in Bombay one of my good friends was getting married á and he had not informed me about it, this made me sad.
0	During a football match, the other team was rude and they hurt my á team members and me.  The coach was prejudiced against us and á punished us unreasonably.  Later we fought with each other and á the match had to be cut short.
4	I was very joyful when I heard that I had passed the standard 8 á exams. The day I heard the news was the day I celebrated my á birthday.
6	I took the tram without paying. There were many people around me á when I was caught by a controller. I felt ashamed but also angry.
4	Being chosen to do your experiment with aphasia.
4	I got my driving licence after they had frightened me with it's á difficulty.
4	I felt joy when I passed my Malawi School Certificate of á Education.
4	A friend of mine that is abroad undertook recently an axam to á enter on University in Dallas, and was approved.
4	When a study tour got confirmed, I was happy all the time till    á the tour began.
2	I had to have my tonsils out. I had been making up my mind almost á for a year - I was afraid. But during the two hours in the á hospital room, while I was waiting to be called for the operation I á felt a real fear - of the pain, of what they were going to do to á me, of the unknown.
6	When I am angry at someone without a good reason. Later on it á proves that he didn't do anything wrong.
3	When I could neither measure up to the expectations of the teacher á nor to my own expectations in one of the assignments.
3	When I crashed by bike into an old lady crossing a road and á knocked her down.
1	Maltreatment of children.
2	I was alone at home, in bed reading a womens' magazine in which á there were storiees of paranormal experiences.  My leg was á itching and I stretched my hand to scratch and I felt another á strange hand. (later I realized that it was the corner of the á blanket)
5	The loss of my mother.
2	When I was curious about it and went to a spiritism session with a á friend. I had already been there other times (many times when I á was younger) but that day, even if I don't believe in á spiritism I was terribly afraid that something would happen to me á (sort of incorporation !).
6	I had promised to contact a friend about a particular matter by a á certain date, then thought no more about it until the friend á reminded me after the date had passed.
0	My best friend started moving out with my boyfriend. When I heard á this my heart sank because I didn't expect that my own good á friend could do such a thing, so I got angry.
5	When my grandfather died.
1	I usually come back home early but this day I came home back late á to find some visitors at my place.
2	One night at three o'clock I was followed by a cardriver, who á tried to molest me.
4	When I passsed the M.S.C board exams with first class, which I á had not expected.
3	Once, I accidentally injured a boy in the eye and he almost lost á it.
1	During my birthday party a friend drank too much alcohol. So much á that he had to throw up. Worst of all was that he couldn't leave á my friend alone and that he was molesting her.
6	Did not finish homework.
4	When my brothers had passed all of their exams and were able to  á graduate from their courses.
1	A man whom I like, was drunk and tried to molest me.
4	When I got admission in M.Sc (I) Organic Chemistry, I was very á happy.
4	When the contract about my shop was signed.
4	I felt it when on duty in the hospital I understood that I was á not afraid to face death, that I also helped a little to relieve á the pains of a patient.
0	When someone lies to me.
3	On a telephone talk where I was agressive and stupid without the á least, reason or better motive.
2	I was escorting a relative on a bike, we passed by a dark road á with bushas on each side.  Half way down this road, suddenly, we   á saw a white dog appear from one side.  Before we could do á anything, it had vanished and moreover it did not seem to have á any legs.
0	When my rights to use a shared house had been usurped by á co-owners out of pure selfishness.
2	I was in the Korean War. We were attacked with mortars, me and á companion. We stopped the jeep and ran for cover. Fortunately á neither of us was hit but we both came close to being killed.
5	Not being accepted by classmates in university.
5	One of my class-mates had a disease unexpectedly, he had been in á a coma for six days in a hospital before he died.
5	I was together with my family one night, a few days after my á father had died, during that conversation I expressed my á displeasure because nobody understands me.
4	When I passed my driving test, as it was the fifth time that I á had taken this test.
5	When my flute-teacher was replaced by a new one.
3	When my aunt went out of her way to help me out with my financial á problems.
1	I read a newspaper article about dogs being stolen in order to á use them for fighting purposes.
6	I was totally unprepared for a seminar conducted by an assistant á professor whom I highly respect.
2	When I was a child, I had a nightmare. At that time, I was not á yet able to tell anybody about it, so I was very frightened. I á could not explain myself all that and I had to deal with it by á myself.
3	Being miserable in a party when other people are friendly and á happy.
6	When I found out my roommate had been talking behind my back á about very personal things.
4	I gave my mom a gift she wanted for years. I raflected her joy.
5	When I learnt that I had failed an exam,  This not only influenced á my emotions but also other important tasks, it also made my á record imperfect.
0	[ This emotion has never been an intense one, that makes it á difficult to recall it.]
3	I had made an appointment with a girl to go to the movies, but á actually I had no mind when we arrived at the cinema, it was a á full house. I then went back and she went to the movie alone.
3	When I and the boy next door set fire to a house by accident.
2	Finding out that my health condition may be against my attending á university lectures.
0	In arguments with a close friend or relative where my point of á view is completely disregarded.
0	I get angry when my smaller brother misbehaves and talks with indecent á words.
2	After going through a glass door, I sustained a number of serious á cuts which were gaping open.
5	Marriage crises.  Boredom.
5	A close acquaintance of the family died of lung cancer.  á Although it was expected, I still felt depressed.
4	A friend I had missed very much came to see me unexpectedly.
0	Being told that I am a stupid person.
3	My patient died of Anaemia while I was organising blood á transfusion for him, so I felt guilty, because I thought that may á be I was slow.
4	Doing well in the examn.
1	The same as in SHAME.
4	The sense of joy comes to me always after a period of depression, á as an organic feeling for an upsurge. I don't exclude the á situative feeling but in this case the reason is not in me, it's á out of me.
6	Getting very low marks in mathematics.
0	"A honest \sliding\"" on the part of a girlfriend of mine. á Terribly crossed I started breaking things and tearing books."""
0	I haven't often felt this feeling. Once someone stole my garment.
6	Being unable to stop urinating on the bus.
0	I was angry when my abilities of a singer were underestimated.
2	When my husband and I spent a night by ourselves in a house which á was in an area on the outskirts of a large town with which we were  á not familiar.  We  heard strange noises outside the house and the  á house had glass walls so the whole thing was even more á frightening.
1	I felt disgusted when I found out that someone had betrayed me. á That person had been dishonest with me and I felt used.
5	"I partly colored my hair black. My mother didn't like it and á reproached me to be a \subversive element\"". Later on she stated á that this was due to my friends. As I see it, this all resulted á from colouring my hair."""
6	[ When I acted against my mind or conscious.]
2	When a thief entered the house in which I was sleeping.
3	Not keeping a promise of delivering materials of great importance á to the receiver.
4	When I finished my C.S. Project I was overjoyed. I felt relieved á because it was due the next day and I was tired of looking at it.
5	I was really hoping that I would pass the examination, but I á failed and so I felt very sad.
0	"When a person the same age as me insisted that I call him á \Mister\"".  I refused to succumb, but he persisted and I got angry á as he had belittled me."""
4	I was in hospital, and then was visited by someone quite á unexpected.
1	My main disgust is against codfish because I detest even the á smell of it.
1	I felt it when I saw our headmaster blushed ingratiating himself á with high ranking officials.
6	I was talking to a friend of mine about our parents and á education.  I said something and then realized that I did not á know my friend's parents, their motives and education.  I felt á ashamed at having talked about something I did not know anything á about.
1	I read a story in the newspaper about butchers treating their á animals very badly. They disgusted me.
1	Sitting in the dorm when the guys were verbally reading letters á in Penthouse.
2	I was to be given an audition to get a role. I had a competitress á and I wasn't well prepared because I was ill.
5	Watching a football game. This remindes me of the time when my á father was still alive and when we watched football games on TV á together.
6	I had subscribed for this test. We were informed by our á secretary where the test took place. We went over there and thought á there was a course. So we went back again I felt ashamed that the á secretary again should see me.
0	Tripped on a busy street.
5	Love problems.
3	I was on a visit to friends who have a baby. The baby was crying á in another room, but soon it became quieter and it seemed that it á would fall asleep. I went into the room where the baby was lying á - and it started crying again. 
2	When I was walking around all alone at night.
0	When a colleague was rude with me because she didn't understand á the subject about which I was discussing.
1	Close friends talking badly of other friends.
2	My friend will find out that I am in love with her.
1	When I, for the first time, failed a junior exam, i.e form 3.
5	When I am with a friend and we have to leave each other.
5	When I saw my niece (5 yrs) crying in the hallway for her mother á who had passed away about a month ago.
2	Earlier, I was afraid of speaking in front of a crowd of people.
1	My flatmate and close friend living and sleeping with another á close friend of mine.
1	I was disgusted with the hypocrisy of my colleagues from the á group.
2	Once when I crossed the street, and was nearly trampled by a car.
2	After having taken an exam i feared having failed it.
3	I had stopped talking to a very close friend of mine.  A week á later he came over to try and make friends with me  again and á from the way he talked I felt that he was a very mean preson.
1	When a student accused me of having stolen his textbook  as he á had found a form bearing my name in his other books and all my á explanations fell on deaf ears.
5	When I got a message that my child was not feeling well.
6	Sending pictures home when I'd put on so much weight.
2	When they tried to rob me.
6	I ride my motorbike in my village and everyone stares at me as if á I was a rare specimen.
3	At my job, I got disproportionately angry with a child.  My á reaction was not as it should have been.
3	While at primary school, I did not let a friend ring a bell á although he would have liked to do it.  Afterwards I felt bad.
4	I went for a walk on the beach with a friend whom I had not seen á for many months.  The weather was very pleasant, we had some á ice-cream and lots of fun on the beach.
2	Fights that I see in the middle of the street, robberies, fear of á darkness when going home.
0	When my brothers were being cruel to my boyfriend, because his á flat-mate bent back one of my brother's fingers. It wasn't his á fault.
6	"When someone I know was caught in an \adultery\"" situation."""
6	Failing an examn.
5	The inability to read a book at college.
3	My father had been alone for a long time because my mother and á sister were on holiday. I had not seen him for a long time and á when I finally called him I realized that he had been very sad á about that.
6	One day I felt dizzy during a lecture.  When the lecturer asked á us as to who had heard the fairy tale - I was the only one who á put up his hand and this surprised the whole class.
0	Bought something bad from the shop and they refused to change it.
4	When the Cambridge results came out and I obtained a first á division.  I had been thinking that I had not done very well.
6	Failed to recagnize a friend on the street.
1	On a trip I passed by a cellulose factory. It was a fine day, á beautiful landscape; I observed this factory with disgust.
4	A friend of mine travelled very far. I miss her but feel joy too á because fer life is taking the right direction as she wants. So I á feel joy for her mainly.
5	When my parents and sister went on a trip and I was separated á from them for about three months.
0	Whenever my father smokes the smell makes me feel very á uncomfortable.  He never listens to my complaints and I curse him á furiously in my mind.  I cannot solve this problem by violence á because of traditional moral values.  
0	I went to the dining hall and found that the cooks were cleaning á the plates and there was no food for me, and the blue birds  á (security guards) were busy eating the food that was supposed to á be for me.
6	A friend started to insult another person without reason and I á felt ashamed of her behavior.
6	Watching TV about china is behind in winning gold medals.
1	Once again, my life partner came back home drunk at midnight.
4	I was talking to a friend and he said something which was very á funny.
1	When the summer holiday job was almost over.
4	A friend which I hadn't seen for years, sent me a small present.
4	On meeting an old friend of mine.
5	I was going away, leaving a dear person behind.
0	Some boys deliberately played tricks on me in the experiments. 
1	A girl who also hires a room in the house where I live always á tries to make a quarrel with everyone available she disgusts me.
1	"I had this feeling when I met a girl, not that she was dirty but á she was to \fresh\"", dump and childish."""
6	When I went to a disco with a friend I started behaving badly á embarrassing him without reason.
3	I ran over my dog with a bicycle when I was carrying him tied to á the handle bar.
3	"When my mother found me in her bedroom \stealing\"" sugar in her á bedroom.  According to our customs there comes a stage when a á child stops using the parents bedroom and I was well past that á age."""
2	I had a very horrible dream one night, I dreamt that I had fallen á off a very crowded train.
6	I went for a walk with a very close friend; we were talking about á our problems, I told her lies.
1	Saw a dirty street.
6	When I was young I felt ashamed when our relatives visited us and á I hid myself.
5	I was in a car accident on the way back from a weekend rowing á regatta we'd won. 5 others were in the car. I thought I'd never á be able to row again.
6	I experienced long ago when I was sightseeing Bulgarians in a á foreign language.
4	When I was selected to this university despite my having á studyied in difficulty throughout my secondary school days.
1	At the sight of an insect, such as the black-beetle.
3	When I got very drunk and really misbehaved at Christmas.
0	During the Christmas holdidays I wanted to invite my brother, his á girlfriend and their child for dinner. When I said to my á brother's girlfriend that I would like them to come at my place á for dinner, she refused and never mentioned it again as if I á had never asked her.
3	I was so excited once that I told my classmate that she was old, á this hurt her and I felt guilty.
3	I got into a bad fight in a bar and my friend received a bad cut á above his left eye while trying to separate us.
4	"When I fell in love with \X\"".  Overnight I felt confidence, self-esteem,    á responsible and worthwhile."""
2	Motorcycle accident with two people involved, running off the á road. Broke an arm, only.
6	When I as a child of 9 or 10 I was playing doctor with the á neighbours boys their mother caught us.
6	I am ashamed of the way my father behaves with my mother and á sister, and with me too.
0	Someone drove into my car and then denied that it had happened.
3	A child was admitted in hospital with Meningitis. I was asked to á do lumber puncture to obtain Celebral Spinal fluid for diagnostic á purposes. Since the condition was already bad, the child died as á soon as I finished the procedure.
6	I was walking one day and I met a man who wanted to ask me about á my brother but I didn't stop to hear what he was saying. I was á ashamed when I found him at home and he told my brother what had á happened.
0	When our cat was killed in a car-accident I was very angry at the á driver of the car because he didn't take enough care.
5	When the grandmother of my friend died in a hospital. My friend á was crying and I was sad, too.
5	I had cared for a horse for 2 years. One day it was sold and I á cried for several days because I was so sad.
2	A dark night when I had to go to the outdoor lavatory.
2	Confronted outside a party by some very nasty character - á gesturing to a car full of mean-acting friends - felt in danger.
5	When I went to see the dead body of my uncle.  This was a very á dramatic expreience as it was the first time that I entered a á mortuary.
0	When I was robbed in a bus.
4	The weekend after I argued with my parents I went home again and á they couldn't have been nicer. As soon as I walked in, Mum kissed á me, then Dad, and thanked me for the birthday presents I'd left á for him, including a very sentimental birthday card.
2	When I decided to leave my steady, secure employment to come to á university. Because I didn't know if I could cope with all the á requirements of study and also being older I didn't know if I á would enjoy mixing with younger people, also financial á insecurity.
1	I read a book whose plot and expressions were obscene and in very á bad taste.
0	A murder.
5	My sweatheart were away on a trip, and then she got problems.
0	My girlfriend mentioned a certain girl's name who was my girl á some time back and she is no longer mine that she said she was á still mine.
6	[ Sorry, I was never ashamed about anything in my life.]
1	When somebody despised a friend of mine.
1	I was forced to stay in the canteen and eat the food that I had á not asked for but got it anyway.
6	When I do not succeed in making myself clear to other people. á When they do not understand what I say.
3	I took french leave to do my homework.
4	When they told me that I had been admitted to the faculty of á medicine.
1	Saw a scene in a movie implying incest as humorous.
2	I had fear when I was left alone at the bus depot at night. I had á problems of how to move to this place.
4	One night I had a very good conversation with two friends. I then á realized how worthy they were for me and how happy I was to á have them as friends.
5	When my mother was very sick and almost died.
6	When, for example, I fail in my undertakings.
4	During the Christmas holidays, I met some of my old friends, á after not having seen them for six months.
4	Discussing psychology with my friends before the lecture.
6	The girl with whom I was going around had been forbidden to be á alone with me in the house.  We paid no attention to this á prohibition but one day her parents appeared and I jumped out of á the window.  They saw me.
6	China cannot buy your reference.
6	When I did not buy what I had promised to.
6	Was accused of having hidden intentions in a situation when I á believed I was acting honestly and fairly.
5	When my mother scolded me for something, very insignificant, without á knowing the real cause of what had happened. 
3	When I finished a love affair where I was responsible of the sad á end.
4	It was when I was allowed to take my wife away from her parents á after being refused for three times on grounds that she should á first write her examination.
5	I felt sadness when I had to get separated from the woman I loved á who had to leave for her motherland.
6	I slept with a man purely because I found him physically á attractive and was under the influence of alcohol.
3	I felt guilty when I once went out with another boy and made love á with him while I had a close boyfriend.
5	In my penultimate job I was responsible of a sections with á several employers, after several years of dedication I was á dismissed by a new chef, saying that I was incompetent.
4	[ A chat on the telephone with a friend.]
4	I had an interview for entry into college. The results were to be á announced on radio. After a long period of waiting the results á were released. I had succeded - tension was relieved by joy.
6	I did bad on a test I didn't study for.
5	A friend of mine called me when I was not at home.  I phoned her á back to know what she wanted and she told me that she had dialled á the wrong number.
2	On Christmas eve,1984, I had just finished the exams and was á afraid as the results of one of my major subjects had been very á unsatisfactory.  I thought that I had only a 50% chance of á passing.  Even if I failed this subject I would not need to á repeat.  However I liked this subject very much and my results á were bad because of my lazyness.  If I was forced to change to a á minor in this subject I would be very unwilling.
1	"At what I was capable of of selfishly using others for sexual á encounters, while I held a vision of having a deepening á above-board (you know, \girl next door\"") devotion to a girl in my á head. My drives and actions did not match this so consequently I á felt disgusted at my failure."""
3	[ I have never felt this emotion.]
3	Losing my temper to my sister.
6	A mishap suffered on misinterpreting a girl's proposition.
4	I was sitting for an exam in biochemistry, I was very excited á because it was a supplementary examination. I passed the exam á very well and was glad because I recovered my selfconfidence.
3	When at times unconscienciously I speak to my mother in a high á tome but after that I am sorry and I feel guilty.
5	When I heard that a good friend had committed suicide.
6	I lied, to be precise I cancelled a meeting with a good friend.
0	A certain friend tried to push me off a seat in a very violent á way for no apparent reason.  It may be that he was excited about á something.
2	When I realized that we are living on borrowed time, and that the á nuclear holocaust appears to come closer every day.
0	During my last exam.
0	When my father failed to send me transport money after the á closure of the school.
5	When I lost the person who meant the most to me. 
2	When I had to talk with an important person about a job.
2	Once, when I was ten, I could not remember why my mother was so á angry.  She fainted suddenly and I was very scared as I did not á know what to do .
5	I felt sad when I was told to walk out of the classroom because I á was within the row of students who were making noise.
6	When I was in a religious school my teacher showed me up in front á of all my class-mates.  They were very sarcastic and cruel.
3	The day I came home drunk after having attended a disco party.
4	When I was admitted to the Bulgarian State Conservatoire.
5	"My father won't be so pleased with me as if I was elected \Three á Good\""."""
6	I tried to swindle a jeweller because my watch was broken and I á wanted to have it repaired it was a pity but they detected it.
3	Once, my friend and I went to the Tai 60 to cycle.  My mother had á told me not to go.  Unfortunately I broke my pectoral girdle and á had to go to hospital.  When my mother  came to see me I felt á guilty as I had not listened to her and I had to soon sit for a á public examination.
2	Walking alone in the dark in a strange street.
0	While playing indoor-hockey, there always is an older man who á frequently and intentionally plays the ball out of the field. In á my opinion this is very childish, because we play for fun only.
6	When I noticed that a person I found attractive had seen me á picking my nose.
1	When a close relative got quite drunk. It was a relative that I á had respected for a long time and looked up to as a child.
2	Once when I was walking alone at mid-night, I happened to put my á foot on a frog, as it felt smooth I thought that it was a snake  á and I felt afraid. á á 
1	When my mother got a terrible beating from my father.  It was so á bad that she fainted and it was only then that my dad realized á how bad it was.
0	When my boss cut off my vacations saying that in that month it á wouldn't be possible, and after some time he let another girl á take vacations that month. The anger was because of the á resentment. Resulting from our bad relationship.
5	I was very sad at hearing that my grandfather had passed away.
5	I spent a weekend in San Diego visiting my boyfriend Rob. We were á at the airport and my plane was just about so leave. After saying á goodbye, I boarded the plane. It was the hardest thing to do and á it was a sad trip home.
1	Saw someone messing up our room.
5	When I was told that my uncle had passed away.
5	Finding out I am not good looking.
0	An utterance, which I had intended to be a joke, was taken as an á offence.  In my opinion, this was stupid, and I got angry.
1	"I feel disgusted at not having got aa \A\"" in yesterday's á practicals of G220."""
2	One time I was injured when I was playing football at School in á Blantyre. I was brought to the hospital while my leg was totally á swollen. The x-rays confirmed there was no fracture but á collection of blood n the muscles. I feared when they started to á incise the swollen part with surgical blade.
6	I had an intimate relation with my boyfriend, but unfortunately á we had sexual problems; therefore I deceived him, but I was á ashamed when I told my friend about it.
0	A certain boy came into my room and started telling me that I was á not pretty, that I had no manners and that I should learn some.  á I had just come to campus and he was in fourth year.
0	The time when someone let the air out of the tyres of my cycle.
3	When I was a kid I stole toys from other kids.
5	One Saturday morning I had got ready to go out swimming with my á friends.  Unfortunately the weather did not permit it, so we á stayed indoors.
2	Heard some ghost-like noise at night.
5	When a girlfriend left me.
0	I feel a strong anger when I am treated unjustly.
1	Dead rat in the kitchen of the university.
3	When before the last exam I have taken, I went out instead of á studying.
0	My room-mate locked up our room without specifying where I would á find the keys.  I had to spend several hours in my other friend's á room.
0	When I was accused by my brother of having stolen a 5 kwatcha á note from my mother's bag.  I was beaten up for this, the money á was found later.
4	When I succeed in writing something I felt and doing it I felt á well and very happy for being able to express to myself something á that was suffocating me.
1	During a recent meeting, Mr. A showed his excitement and á overindulged in the notes delivered.  Though his curiosity could á not be blamed, his way of accquiring knowledge was an extreme á behaviour e.g he always tried to know what I was reading and á gained everything he could.
1	I was eating in the dinning hall and some women joined me.  I á could not eat with them so I left the dinning hall.
2	After a short stay in Marocco we missed the ferry-boat back to á Spain and we had to look for an accomodation. By chance we met a á man who offered to take us to a camping site. While I was sitting in his á car I was terribly afraid because I had heard of people being á robbed in Marocco.
5	I put in two years of hard work and it was neither looked at nor á appreciated.
5	When my basket ball team lost the qualification at a final.
1	[ Do not remember any incident.]
0	People having a football match outside the window during the á lecture.
3	I went to my boyfrien's house. There I found clothes of a certain á girl. Without asking whose clothes they were I started tearing á them only to realise that they were his sister's and so I felt á guilty.
6	When I was about seven or eight I was caught having stolen a á doll's dress from my next-door neighbour.
5	When I was told that I had not been successful in getting the job I á had been expecting.  I was sure that I was sufficiently á qualified.
0	My mother and my sister carried on picking at me all day long for á no reason at all and I ended up getting angry.
4	I felt joy when I heard my name being called on the radio as one á of the students who had passed the interview of Nursing and was á selected to start Nursing.
1	At an anti-pornography meeting, when samples from films and á magazines were shown.
5	When it suddenly appeared that our dog was dangerously ill and á probably would die. We had not expected this because he á was always very healthy. Fortunately he survived because we, in turn, á gave him medicines during the night.
6	I tried to date a girl, but she refused.
4	I got better marks in the examn than many arrogant people.
0	Meddlesomeness of my mother about the way I live. She thinks I am á to free in my behavior for instance when a boyfriend stays the á night.
1	I felt disgust as a result of one of my midterms - I thought I á had prepared well for it, but the end result wasn't what I had á expected.
1	A piece of work was marked as bad by the teachers I and some á fellow students didn't agree with their vague criticism. I felt á myself taken in by the teachers and felt disgust.
2	On a dark night I felt that there were several people near me á and I did not know who they were.
6	When I realized that I was pregnant.  I thought about what my á relatives and friends would think about me and I felt a lot of á self pity.
6	Finding out that I was deceived by my friend.
0	[ During my childhood when I could not get what I wanted from my á brother/sister and parents.]
5	Feeling unable to preserve one's ideas and ambitions as innocent á as they are when you are young.
5	Sometimes, when I'm alone I am seized by this feeling. But it á always helps me to come round and at the same time to judge if it á is worth. Very often this feeling is caused to me by people - á friends who I love and respect.
6	Getting slightly intoxicated at the 1984 I.C.C. Ball.
1	At a gathering I found myself involuntarily sitting next to two á people who expressed opinions that I considered very low and á discriminating.
5	"I heard that a friend had died in an accident; group situation: á suddenly a friend came in and said \Have you already heard á that...\""; there was a terrible consternation, silence, then á everybody shouted excitedly \""How could that happen...\""."""
4	My sister gave birth to twins, healthy ones.
1	In a certain book I read about cruelties and violence in prison á and souteneur circles; I felt especially disgusted when I read á detailed descriptions of physical and mental torture of less á powerful people.
6	Feeling inadequate in a group situation, being unable to convey á my own thoughts and feelings.
1	A situation of overt unfairness, manipulation of people and its á consequences.
0	I had applied for a job and they had assured me that the exams á would take place a few months later.  A week later I went to á obtain some more information and they told me that the exams had á already taken place.
6	Lying to a friend about something that was trivial.
3	I had a girlfriend which I used to call regularly. Then I didn't á phone her for a while. At a certain moment I felt a little á tension which became worse.
4	I felt happy at the settlement of our marriage, even though we á are from different socio-linguistic backgrounds our parents á agreed to the wedding without any conflict or discussion.  We had  á thought that they would object to the wedding but it did not happen. 
1	When I committed a sin mentioned in ANGER. A sin of sexual á immorality.
3	I was walking quite quickly and unthinking through a children's á playground, when a toddler ran in front of me I knocked him over á and he hit his head quite hard and began crying.
1	There is a girl at my work that doesn't take care much of her á hygiene she comes always with her hair oiled, a not very agreable á smell, and a bad appearance. Beside this she tries to be nice.
1	"People who came to our home - and requested \Put out your smoke\"". á That we should not smoke in our house... and asked not even á politely. It disgusted me because I think people need to adapt to á the situation."""
1	I felt disgusted one day when, as we were eating, a child á defecated on the table side.
4	The more than satisfactory result of a recently-completed á university subject was communicated to me by phone.
3	When I offend somebody unfairly.
5	When I got into an argument with someone and was very abusive, á but they were a close friend and I later regretted it.
6	I fell down in the bus when it braked suddenly and everybody á started looking at me.
2	I was alone at home, a man forced the front door which was á locked, forced and tried to open a window.
2	I was living with my brother and one day he went away on business á and I was left alone to look after the house and the property. At á night thieves came and wanted to break into the house.
1	In a bus I fell sick and vomitted in a bag.  The entire situation á was disgusting in itself.
2	Reading a horror story alone.
1	When I saw a film in which there was a scene where women were cut á to pieces.  Above all, it was the blood and the confusion which á impressed me most.
3	When I am not able to fulfill any request of my son - can't take á him out to ride his byke, because I am tired.
4	New year's eve 1983/1984, I met my girlfriend.  We stood on the á steps outside her parents home and I kissed her for the á first time.
6	One rainy day when the streets were wet, and as I was walking down á a slope, I fell down out of my carelessness.  There were many á people and they saw me, so I felt ashamesd.  Moreover I hurt my á ankle and it was painful.
2	When I saw a horrible movie - Alien.
4	"Last year my freshman yr. It was a day in March I did well on á some tests. I seemed to finally adjust to college, it was hot and á sunny. I was walking in front of a frat. when I heard Beach Boys á \Surfin'USA\"". I had this overwhelming feeling that to be at CAL á was good. I still have it somewhat."""
1	Flicking through a magazine showing pictures of homosexual men á committing various acts.
3	At school, I did not tell the teacher that it was me who á had laughed, and she punished the entire class by making them á stay behind for one hour.
0	When my mother rejected my boyfriend and made unfair judgements á on him.
4	The joy came when I first proposed a girl at Secondary School.
2	When I was travelling at night.
2	When I had to assume a position which I didn't expect.
1	Deception from a person I loved very much.
6	When I complained to my mother about how untidy the kitchen á loooked, she boxed my ears ( this had never happened before).
5	When my grandmother died.
1	An acquaintance of mine revealed himself in a light unexpected to á me.
5	When my grandmother passed away.
1	I am disgusted with the behavior of a car driver whose car would á run over me and my friends during our autumn brigade.
0	When I was locked out of my room by my room-mate's friend.
5	Always when I get separated from my friends and relatives from my á home town.
5	Deceived by other people and ran into trouble.
2	In March I was busy studying during the night I could only sleep á two or three hours only for fear that I would be weeded and sent á back.
4	When I read the newspaper that morning I found my candidature á number on the admission list of the Chinese university.  I was á satisfied and happy and the cumulative anxiety disappeared.  I á only wanted to cry out that I had succeeded.
4	When I made up with a girl-friend of mine after having been on á unfriendly terms with her (my fault).  I cried with joy that á evening.
4	First time I slept with my present girlfriend. Had been best á friends for a year but had been hesitant about getting involved á emotionally.
5	I had been separated from my girlfriend for about a year.  On her á birthday I put a present in her mailbox.  I had spent two days á choosing a suitable present for her.  I waited for a few days and á there was no reply from her; at last I received a thank-you card á in my mailbox.  On the card there was only my name, the words thank-you  á and her signature.  I was very sad then.
2	The hero was chased by a terrible vampire in a suspense and á horror film shown on T.V.
1	I felt very disgusted at a friend to whom I had given a Psychology á book to read, and she did not care to give me back the book á during the exams.
1	The murder of two girls on a school trip to Berlin (and sexual á crimes generally) a couple of years ago.
6	I lied to my best friend and I wouldn't reform what I had done.
5	Failing examn.
6	Haven't felt shame for ages.
1	Returning home in the late afternoon I saw an indecent act made á by a man with the purpose that I saw it.
1	"I am disgusted with my sister's husband. On an early Sunday á morning after having knocked at my door, he suddenly rushed in á and finching me still in bed he began quarrelling about á something. I could not understand. I heard his last words: \Don't á stare at me so because I'll beat you in your bed\"" I got up á terrified and a thrashing followed."""
5	When my beloved uncle was shot dead by relatives.
2	I was walking along the passage to my room (very near the anatomy á laboratory) and I heard something and felt that there was some á thing behind me.  I looked back and there was no one.  I started á imagining that maybe it was a corpse.
1	When I was refused a transfer from my school to another, simply á because it was far away from my house.
3	When I beat up a stupid boy who was fond of cracking jokes on me.
1	When I heard about the way a parent of a friend had mistreated á him, and caused a great instability.
0	A co-worker and I had to rush a project. I was only working there á for one month and he for some years. Instead of letting me know á that he wanted to do the project himself, he went to the á superviser and let the superviser tell me to let the co-worker do á it himself since he was quicker at it.
3	Not handing in homeworks in time.
2	When my mother had a nervous illness.
2	Tutorial again !  A fearful feeling came to me when I sat on the á chair and looked at my fellow students all around.  I was really á scared that they would ask me some questions or challenge the á ideas that I had presented.
1	When I noticed two spiders running on the floor in different á directions.
2	I found myself involved in a fight in which a person died and I á had to intervene with some risk.
6	A few days back I had to ask a professor a ridiculous question á because I had lost at a game of cards and had to pay a forfeit.
5	The death of my grandmother.
4	When I can see my parents because now I am far from them.
2	Finding out that I made a stupid mistake in the examn.
4	A party with friends on New Year's Eve.
3	When my parents fight lots of time, when I'm the reason of the á fight, I feel guilty.
4	When I heard that I had passed the second year exams.
3	Wrongly accused a classmate.
5	The last time I felt sad and disappointed was when I did not do á as well as I had hoped in one of the final exams.  As compared á with the earlier exams, the questions, I think, were unjust.
1	"When my parents behave very \witty\"" towards me, they make insipid á jokes about which they laugh. Or my mother who treats me like a á little child."""
2	I was within a hair's breadth of knocking down a drunkard who á suddenly ran into the street.  The fear came later when I     á realized what could have happened.
1	After buying a ticket, I lost it before I reached my destination á and the bus Inspector dropped me at a place I didn't know.
5	When my grandfather whom I had met only once for 3 weeks, died á after several months. I was really sad because he was a lovely á person and I did not have the means for his company.
0	In a confrontation with a person, he provoked me several times á till I reacted in an angry way.  Fortunately there were no á disastrous consequences.
4	When I heard that I had passed my final examination at school á (with success).
0	A person walking his dog allowed it to defecate on the footpath á outside my house. Although it had happened before, this was the á first time I had witnessed it. All the skills I had learnt from á PY 263 were thrown out the window when his indifference to my á protestation was obvious to me.
1	Having moved into a flat within the last week I felt some disgust á that a bathroom tap had been left to drip with a faulty fawcet.
5	I felt sad when I heard that my girlfriend was double-crossing me á with the boy who is my best friend.
4	When I heard my name being announced on the radio that I had been á successful in an interview for admittance for a medical Assistant á training course. I was really happy and I enjoyed myself by á dancing to music from the Radio cassette.
5	I was very sad  when I got the XIIth standard results, when I got á low marks as compared to my friend and I could not get admission á to courses like medicine.
0	[ No response.]
3	Had started a relationship and did nothing to keep it up, partly á the use of another person.
2	Could not find my way out in the college building at night.
0	My parents do not like my friend and told me to stay away from á him.
4	Getting into this university to do medicine.
0	Having gone to school without learning anything, as usual.
6	During a discussion I said something rather stupid and á unnecessary.
5	When my sister died, she was only sixteen when she was put to á rest.
2	One evening when my sisters, brothers and I were watching T.V my á kid brother took a big mirror and reflected light on the french á windows.  I thought that these lights that we could see were á coming from torches annd that it meant that there were thieves á outside.
0	Towards wife's laziness in not performing her usual duties á because of television watching.
3	Often I forget to give my immediate family birthday presents.
1	A man sexually aggressed a small girl in the bus but the girl did á not dare to speak out.
5	When my grandfather died.
2	When I had crossed Lilongwe forest I heard that there was a rabid á hyena just near the path in the forest.
5	I felt sadness when I remembered my former boyfriend with whom I á got separated an year ago and when comparing him with my present á one with whom things are not much of a success.
5	My girl-friend left me.
5	Leaving the house myself and a female friend had shared for 6-8 á months because of the friendship which developed and our approach á to each other in occasional instances of several personal crises.
5	I had to leave Den Helder and all friends and acquaintences, á after having spend two weeks there with my friends.
4	Selling my used car.
6	I slipped and fell in to a puddle and people started looking at á me.
5	When I left New York, and all my family and my friends behind me.
3	My younger sister was almost run over by a lorry.
4	When I met an old schhol friend (school love) who works in á Sk+vde.
1	One day when I was sitting in a not very crowded bus, a middle  á aged woman was standing beside me.  The person sitting next to me á got up to get off and this woman pushed me and occupied the seat. á  Then she took off her shoes and put her feet on the seat.
4	Coming to this lecture and listen to you talking about feelings, á I am so happy that foreigners have the same feelings as Chinese.
6	I was working in a job in which I could not work quickly enough, á and was told that my work was not up to standard.
4	I went to a doctor with a complaint. The doctor told me that I á was completely healthy.
0	A shop in Downtown wouldn't accept my Visa Card - before December á last year.
1	When I worked at the life-saving service I was disgusted by a á patient whose outward appearance was distasteful.
4	"When I first heard \I like you !\"" from my boyfriend."""
6	As a kid my mother caught me stealing sugar and giving it to a á neighbour.
1	Someone stole a K10 note and the teacher thought that it was me á when I was not responsible for the theft.
0	I was badly beaten up by one of my friends during a wedding á party.
4	After a one year's stay abroad, I returned home. I was even more á glad to see how much my family was pleased to see me.
6	I was ashamed when I got the lowest result (mark) in class. All á the same I didn't worry too much because I knew I would have got á much better if I had read enough.
4	When I passed the driving test already on the first try, although á I felt more and more uncertain as the day came near.
0	The outrageous conduct of a relative towards me and those close á to me.(blaming us and lying)
0	[ One day I arrived home rather tired and found the house..... In á addition I was asked many questions which I did not want to á answer.]
3	[ When I act thinking that I know everything and I then realize á that there were things I had not thought about, thus hurting á others.]
4	This happened when it was finally confirmed that I had stood á first in the university for the M.A exams.  A few days before the á official results were declared a clerk had brought the results á unofficially.  So I had been expecting the results but the á confirmation allowed me to legitimately feel happy at my á success. á 
6	When I told a girl that I could not take her out that night as I á was entertaining my mother who had come from home.  However, I á later met this girl with another girlfriend at a hostel where I á had taken out another girlfriend of mine.
2	Whenever I think of enrolling in Organic Chemistry.
5	I was told that a friend of a friend committed suicide.
4	Realizing one's desire, an experienced feeling of satisfaction á from the realization of one's desires and aims.
2	When they threatened me with a knife to take my money.
0	When being made look a fool by the teacher in front of the class á during a turn.
0	We had fixed time for practice as we had to participate in the á inter-department song contest.  I arrived and found that there á was nobody there.  When I went to the canteen I found them eating á lunch.  I was so angry that I aired my greviances to one of them á and then left.
6	"My third grade teacher caught me cheating on a spelling test. I á couldn't spell Australia and she said in a loud voice something á like \We don't have cheaters in my class\""."""
5	At a prolonged separation with my family.
6	On the train a drunk person touched my baby and I reacted very á disapprovingly.  I felt ashamed later as the person had not been á aggressive though he could have been.
0	I was on a farm with a few friends and during the talk I á discovered that a friend of mine, was being betrayed by her á boyfriend and a 3rd friend of ours.
3	When I let a person assume a fault that I committed.
5	The day I woke up to find that a kitten I had wanted to keep had á been eaten by the neighbour's dogs.  It had been locked out by my á wife who claimed that it had dirtied the sheets.
5	I had asked the teacher to write a recommendation letter for me, á but I had not provided enough information and had run short of á time.
5	At set-backs.
4	When I was appointed by the Ministry of health to join the á teaching staff of one of the medical colleges.
0	I had an implicit agreement with my sister about meeting her, á however she had not understood the situation the same way so she á did not turn up.
2	When I was about to be bitten by my friend's dog, later on it bit á me.
4	I felt this emotion when my name was announced on the radio that á I had been selected to come to Lilongwe School for Health á Sciences to take a training course as a Medical Assistat.
3	I am not very affectionate and I feel guilty as I do not give as á much affection as I receive.
4	I didn't like my former fob and felt joy when I received a á telegram offering me a new one that I though better and for which á I had been waiting.
5	The loss of a very good friend.
0	Anger with boyfriend's best friend for alienating me and blaming á me for personality changes in my boyfriend and changes in my á boyfriend's attitude to him and his obvious egoistical attitude á himself in doing so. I also lost one of my best friends - his á girlfriend.
3	When I see that my mother forces my little brother (15 years) to á work very hard for school. I don't agree that she constantly puts á him to work, but I don't tell it to her, so nothing changes.
0	I learned that my girlfriend had been unjustly missed from work.
6	When I went to a sauna with my father for the first time (I was á 16). When I entered the sauna naked, I felt ashamed for a short á time.
0	When I was in form 3, my aunts lied to my daddy telling him that á I had told them that I was pregnant.  My daddy  told my mother á and she asked me if it was true.  I was very angry with my aunts.
6	Sleeping with a girl on a Saturday night and then not contacting á her in later days.
5	When my grandfather died.
5	Finding out that the girl I like does not like me.
6	When I imitated a teacher behind his back - walking very silly.
2	"After seeing a terror movie at the cinema, I was so scared that I á couldn't even drive the car into the garage. I often thought á about the film afterwards, hoping such things couldn't exist in á the \real world\""."""
0	"Physical violence. A friend wouldn't listen to me I repeatedly á tried to warn him, to no avail. Result: eight people were \pissed á off\""."""
5	My nephew's mother just left one day (my brother and she were á not married). My nephew, Anthony, was shaken. I was sad for him á because a similar situation happened to me.
3	When I didn't bring my girlfriend home one night. Later she told á me that a cardriver solicited her.
0	I was informed by my flatmate that, when we'd moved into our á flat, she'd expected us to buy our food separetely - this event á actually happened some 5 months after our sharing began. Prior to á this, she had said nothing.
1	When the Americans set their nucleaar missiles in Europe.
6	I had obviously done the work badly but my class-mates of the á student's association did not blame me, they helped me do the á work.
2	My father had been drinking and I feared him when we went to bed á at night.
6	When my mum learnt that I had beaten up someone in a fight.
5	Long illness.
0	When I was misleaded by a person who assured that something would á not occur, that I had no reason to prepccupy myself, and suddenly á I saw myself implicated by the fact, because of the incompetence, á and irresponsibility of that person.
3	Criticizing my mother when she refused to drive with the radio on. á I told her that I thought she wasn't intelligent enough to cope á with the radio.
1	When I was young, one day in the car we fell sick and ended up á vomitting on each other.
0	I wanted to see a friend, I had been looking forward to it and á had certain expectations, but he did not pay any attention to me, á played cards with other people.
5	Death of a pet rabbit. We had to give it away because my brother á became allergic to it. We gave it to a man who kept animals and á lots of other animals for children to watch. We went to visit our á rabbit. It was badly beaten by the other rabbits and eventually á died.
5	When a friend died.
4	When I received a letter from a woman I thought had not ever á cared for me.  This was when I needed her and I was overjoyed to á learn that it was me who was delaying things.
0	When my aunt told me angrily that I was a good-for-nothing and á she was fed up with my behaviour.
3	While travelling in a bus with an invalid ticket, I got caught.
2	Almost crashing into the back of a car while driving along the á motorway on my motorcycle.
1	During a football game, another player who was perspiring very á strongly ran into me.
0	A typical family argument.
6	I felt shame when I was asked by my cousin that I promised to buy á her a birthday present but I didn't buy it for her in front of á friends.
5	My son lives in the country. I feel sadness when I see mothers á having walks with their children.
1	I was shopping in Utrecht with friends, we also ate some chips á and snacks in a snackbar, then we saw a shabby fellow. He took a á cold half eaten croquette (a snack) from a rubbish bin and eat á it.
1	When I had to eat scraps from a dust-bin, because of a bet.
1	When I saw someone eating live worms.
5	When I heard my grandfather's wife had leukemia I was very sad.
2	When I was confronted by a policeman one night around 11 o'clock. á  I was afraid when they threatened to take me and my girl to the á gallows.
0	"When I was accused of \bitching\"" about best friend."""
3	When having a relationship, I made love with another girl.
0	They wanted me to pay for a ticket twice because they said that á the one I had was out of date.
1	When I was still a child, I saw a horror film on TV in which á there was a rotten human skull.
0	While playing a ball game, I was just about to make a goal when I á was thrown off my feet, and I failed to score the goal.
5	[ Depressions.]
0	It was necessary to organise a competition in connection with a á celebration. Everyone was to be present at that event. It turned á out that there was no audience at all because everyone had á pretended to be very intelligent and no one had come. I got á furious.
6	At a weekend's seminar my trousers suddenly burst, therefore I was á prevented from participating in several activities.
1	When I found out the CIA was mining Nicaraguan harbors.
3	When my parents work very hard and get tired - while I go to á school and study instead of helping them. I feel that I'm letting á them down, disappointing them.
5	When I failed my Standard 8 Examination for the first time.
2	First day at University (I didn't know what to expect).
4	When I passed the driving test (on the second try).
2	Getting back my Psych 140 midterm.
4	"When I won the \Under 18\"" Showjumping at the Brookfield Show. The á competition was very stiff and there were many riders competing."""
3	Squeezed the puppy in the door.
2	Before the examn.
0	A close friend first said he accepted an agreement, but later á used that agreement as a reason for attacking me.
0	One morning I was standing at the bus-stop and the bus passed by á without stopping, even though there were only 8-10 passengers á inside.  I felt angry at the rude behaviour of the bus driver and  á conductor.
4	When I won some coins in a small competion.
0	I had an argument with my mother because I criticized the rules á she imposes at home, which are too rigid and arbitrary for me.
3	When I was fighting with my elder brother I unintentionally hurt   á him in the eye with a wooden bar.  I felt guilty and feared that á he would be blind, fortunately he recovered after 15 days.
6	I was ashamed to tell my mother that I fell down with a bicycle.
0	I was angry when I heard that my only girl was going about with á another man. So I decided to drop her but later the story came to á be untrue.
3	Borrowed someone else's towel without asking.
0	[ No response.]
2	On the way back from Denmark with a friend on a small yatch, á there was a storm and my friend was blown overboard;  I was very á scared till I managed to get him back onboard.
5	When my grandmother died. I had a very deep relation to her (I á lived with her for several years).
6	At a carneval-party I smooched with a man - some days later I was á rather ashamed for that.
4	I unexpectedly met a girl with whom I have always got along well. á ( I had not seen her for several months.)
1	A girl, who is a friend of mine was having an affair with a boy á who is also a friend of mine.  I got to know that this girl was á also seeing another guy.  Later on, she just broke off with this friend á of mine without giving any explanations.  This made him sad and á depressed, and I felt disgust for this girl.
3	When my father's car got stolen from me. (A 1966 Ford Mustang - á very hard to replace).
0	When males in my family try to assign house duties exclusively á with referance to sex.
4	When I recently got an appartment in central Gottenburg.
5	When I learned that my former boyfriend had become engaged - á although I was glad that he had found what he wanted, I was very á sad at my own personal loss, since I had always hoped we might á one day reconcile.
6	When I was 10, I got busted for stealing a candy-bar.
3	I didn't tell my parents exacly what had made me so late in á getting home one night. I left out some details and somehow, I á felt I had lied to them.
4	The time I learnt that I had passed my Malawi School leaving á Certificate Examinations.
4	When I got my drivers licence.
6	When I broke-down while seeing off my friend.
4	I was called and invited to have a talk about a job I wanted to have.
4	Talkiing about the past happy hours with two friends at night in á a camp a few months ago.  We shared our feelings, notions and á every hidden anxiety.  I thought that they cared for me and I á was very happy and satified.
5	When the train taking me to my military service left the station, á on the platform remained relatives, projects and goodtimes.  I á had a hard year ahead.
6	I told my friend about how I had calculated my salary by cheating a á little.  When my friend remarked about it, I understood that it á was wrong to do so, and I felt ashamed.
0	There was a sofa in my flat which belonged to the old tenants who á were acquaintances.  It should have been picked up a year ago but á they had postponed it.  Eventually they decided on one date and I á stayed at home despite the fact that I had other things to do.  á They did not come, nor did they call and they still have not got á in touch with me.
4	I passed an exam which I thought I had failed.
6	When my friends were rude to a girl. 
0	My sister once stole my mother's money and made her very angry.  á After this my mother would beat her up for unreasonable reasons.  á One day my sister lent her book to a friend without telling my á mother about it.  When my mother learnt this she beat her up and á even threatened her with a pair of scissors.  
6	Not quick enough to help the lectors to catty things for the á lecture.
2	Suddenly found out that I was the lasr one to leave the anatomy á room.
3	I did not do my homework and went to see a film.
2	A time when I was very afraid of something was when I broke my á father's antique lamp.
6	It was last week on Sunday that I was walking with my girlfriend á along Kawale road going to town so I tried to stop a car for a á lift and the driver didn't stop and I felt shame because people á were looking at us.
1	Overeating a traditional type of food - blood pudding.
5	Moving to an unknown place, away from the familiar surroundings á and into a situation of loneliness.
2	I had fear of my father (parents) when I first became pregnant. I á was afraid of delivery itself and whether I would give birth to a á stiiborn or a baby.
4	I passed an exam that I was absolutely certain that I had failed.
2	When thieves broke into our neighbour's house and later we heard á gunshots.
3	I had to leave an important function early because of family á commitments. Someone else had to complete my job.
3	Having an affair with my good friend's best friend. And every time á I see my best friend I feel guilt because we can't tell him.
5	It was mid May 1985, When we had a Test on Nursing. My classmate á had an answer sheet, so he tried to peep. The Nursing Tutor á caught him. During this time I was turning my question paper and á it made noise. This friend blamed me of causing the whole matter á for him to be caught.
4	On the cliff by the sea, the silence and the sudden voice of a á bird.(swans of the bay)
5	My father suddenly fell ill and died.
0	When I talk to silly, petty-minded and unmanageable people.
2	When I was 8 years old, I would usually come home from school á with my mother in a car.  For the first time I had to take the á school bus, and I mistook the bus stop and found myself two á kilometres away from where I lived.  I was very scared, wondering á how I would get back home.
4	"I had a dream : I had a very close friend who had several stone á houses in the New Territories (villages) but they did not have á much furniture.  He took me to see his fields (I had never seen á them before) and there were several inches of clear water on á which the sunshine was reflected.  I wanted to sit among the á short green plants in the fields but was afraid of treading the á plants to death.  My friend said \They will not die\"" and I sat á down happily and my trousers did not get wet."""
1	I had intercourse with someone and then I realized that what I á had done was wrong and it disgusted me.
2	I was riding with a friend in his car. At a speed of 120 km/h on á the snow-covered motorway I would have liked to get out.
4	Had a letter from my father (usually he does not write to me).
2	When I saw a ghost.
0	When my friends left without waiting for me, after we had arranged á to go out together.
2	When a thief broke into my house at night.
3	We had a day off from school. Instead of helping my mother with á her job, I stayed in bed all day.
4	When I received the best actor award at the inter-college drama á competition.  It gave me tremendous joy and satisfaction which á lasted for several days.
1	When I first saw the state of a cafeteria in the grounds of the á university. Due to students own lack of concern for the á environment in which they eat and drink. Rubbish and spilled tea á and coffee left everywhere.
2	When I was walking on a fairly out-of-the-way street.
6	Participating in a theft several years ago.
5	When my father had a cerebral hemorrhage.
2	My best frieend left school recently.  The next day the weather á turned bad suddenly and the male class-mates turned off the á lights.  I remained on the table and was scared.
0	My class leader told me the university won't let all of us go to á your lectures because we are not All English Class.
3	I was not able to explain well to my good friend to make him less á angry.
2	Was nearly knocked down by a car.
4	When I finally got a job after days of wondering whether I would á be hired or not and counting on the money that it would bring.
1	In Punjab, when in the name of religion people killed each other á during the agitation.
4	When I got married.
5	I had to terminate a training because I wasn't suited for it. I á was very sad about this, because I very much wanted to finish á that training.
0	My bed sheet (present of my parents) damaged by roommate.
1	My notes were not returned to me, it kept on being á procrastinated.
3	Guilty when I hadn't walked my dog for quite a few days and had á given her no attention.
4	I passed an exam which I was not sure at all to pass.  I rejoyced á at the result because the possibility of continuing my studies á depended on it.
6	I fell outside the door of my house.
6	Not doing well in examns which I should do well (English examns).
1	[ No response.]
0	When they broke the artistic work of several weeks.  Changes were á made and it was broken without permission, they had no right to á do this.
2	Thinking of the unknown, what happens at the moment of death, á etc.
5	When my honest intentions were marred by another's jealousy.
5	The long lasting illness of my grand-mother, and the changes in á family relationships caused by it.
5	When my dad gives priority to my kid brother's band and his á other activities.  We both play in different bands and rehearse á in my parents garage.
2	When I had left my home, my father, under false pretences, got me á in his car and drove home where we were all alone. He was seethed á with rage because I withrew from his authority. He hit me, kicked á me and threatened me.
6	Not chosen for all English classes.
5	Finding out I am not chosen for the English lectures.
3	A very close friend of mine invited me to spend the holidays with á him.  He was very kind, good and understanding.  However it á turned out that he had two of his cousins at his place.  He, á however gave me everything I needed - even transport money.
5	This monday I took a Math 1BS test and flunked for the second á time.
5	Saying goodbye to a friend.
5	After blowing up and saying all the wrong things, I realized what á I had done and hurt that person and myself.
3	When I unjustly accused a person of my family of something she á didn't really do.
0	When I travelled all the way to my former school to collect my á certificate, only to be told that I owed them some money, I knew á nothing about this.
2	Two summers ago my best friend and I drove into unknown mountains á at midnight to pick up my broken car. We told one another á horrifically scary ghost/murder stories and succeeded in scaring á eachother pretty well - even though somewhere in our heads we á knew the fears were unjustified.
2	When abroad, while driving a car along a dark, winding road.
6	During a meeting I said something wrong and the others laughed at á me.
2	Walking on a dark street with noone around.
0	I was drawn up a statement for an infringement of the traffic á ordinance. In fact I was innocent.
1	When I happen to witness some sadistic acts.
3	I had gone to see one of our professors about a book, and I did not á  attend the class she took a few minutes later.á 
3	Meeting a male friend with whose wife I was having an affair.
3	I read about the national and social spirit and self-discipline á of the people of developed coutries like U.S.A, England, France, á Germany etc.  Comparing this to the Indian people I felt guilty á as they have no national spirit or self-discipline.
4	When a friend of mine had her period, while thinking she was á pregnant.
3	When I forgot to take out money for my mother. She asked me what á she would do, because I had messed up her program for the á following day.
1	When after a storm in the country, I left my shelter and saw a á big, fat, slimy green toad by my side.
4	[ When I have achieved what I wanted to achieve, I feel the above á stated emotion. Also when I am sucessful.]
4	I felt extreme joy the day I was baptized. I was one with God.
4	Passed an exam by 2 points.
3	Guilt at often being unable to visit a close relative in hospital á after her death I felt very guilty and wished I had done more.
6	I ate very fattening food in front of my boyfriend who would like á me to lose weight. I am supposedly pursuing a modelling career á but first I must lose weight. I had been trying to diet.
6	Sometime back I was coming from the wards and lice were all over á my uniform since patient's blankets have a lot of lice. It á happened that my boyfriend picked some lice from my white uniform. á I was so ashamed.
5	The death of my grandfather.
5	When I said good-bye to my girlfriend.  I had spent two years on á developing this relationship and it was unsuccessful, I felt very á sad.
0	When after a lot of provocation my child threw a plate on the á floor.
3	The assistant professor saw me cheat at the preliminary á examination.
2	When the week for Exams came. I got afraid as to how I would á tackle the questions.
0	This summer I got into a fight with one of our patrons (at a á theatre). He hit me and I hit him and her friend, he hit my friend á and we all hit eachother.
4	I felt happy when I received the letter telling me that I had á been admitted to the university.
2	Whenever I am alone in a dark room, walk alone on the street, á sleep alone in the room at night or see something which is only á partly visible.  This emotion was very strong when as an 8 year   á old child I saw something horrible.  
1	On my way to a concert I went with a man who tried to molest me. á At that moment I did not care much but now the impression fills á me with disgust.
4	I unexpectedly got a present from my father.
1	With an alcoholic.
5	When I went to see the result of an exam and saw that I had á failed.
3	When I got low marks in the final year B.Sc exams, I felt guilty á as I had not worked hard because I had been roaming around with my á  friends.
0	I was accused of having drunk a bottle of liquor and then á refilling with water.
2	I got caught shoplifting a package of gummy bears.
3	I felt it when I came home after the examination session and I á said I had not passed my last exam.
4	When I received a beautiful birthday gift form my parents.
6	Doesn't apply.
6	In an examination ,which other students found easy I could hardly á think and did not know what to answer.
6	A professor was going to read aloud in class a composition of á mine in which I had criticized some political attitudes and also á some class-mates.   I was ashamed at having written that.
1	One of my very good friends came to me for advice as her á boyfriend had been hitting her and beating her quite harmfully.
6	Once I had torn a few pages off a library book and I felt ashamed á at this.
0	I was angry at the Cafeteria when the cook scolded and said many á bad things about me without reason. He thought I was among the á girls who did him wrong.
3	When I moved away from home.
1	Once when I was babysitting for some neighbors children I found á roaches in ther bathroom. I had never seen a roach before but I á called my mother to make sure that's what they were. And she came á over and checked.
4	I made dinner for some friends and they appreciated it very much.
3	I ate a Runeberg's cake, though I knew that I would immediately á put on a kilo.
3	I was caught sneaking sweets.
1	Doctors ignored relative who complained about pain, and is now á dying of cancer.
0	Once again my parents distroyed a relationship.
2	I was alone and someone tried to break in from our back door.
1	People spitting in railway stations.
0	I was in love with a very beautiful girl and when I went back for á my holidays I found her wth another guy who she said was just a á friend.  Later I found them together and was convinced that there á was something fishy.
6	My girlfriend had started going around with another boy.  Her á cousin, also a friend of mine, asked her as to who she preferred. á  Both of us were present and she chose the other guy.
2	I feared that I was pregnant.  It was not planned and I would á have been compelled to have an abortion, which I would not have á liked at all.  Fortunately, after a week's anxiety, I got to know á that I was not pregnant.
2	During labour when the foetal sounds became faint and there was a á big alert for a forceps delivery.
4	When, after a long time, I saw a girl with whom I was in love.
2	Being sexually assaulted (not rape, but passionate kissing) by a á friend's father - he stopped when he was driving me home. I á hadn't wanted the lift, had refused 3 times, and then felt it'd á be rude to refuse again. Was really afraid of what he might do.
3	I had thrown with the ashtray a still lighted cigarette in the á plastic wastepaper basket. It had burnt out and my landlords made á me a row that I might had set their flat on fire.
0	When I failed an exam I thought I would pass.
1	A few days back, I walked on a heap of faeces while walking on á the road.  I got goose flesh because of this.
4	"I found a human \treasure\"" that I desired and got immediately. I á didn't think about anything. When I touched him I imploded but I á am whole."""
5	When someone I love told me that she did not love me anymore and á that she wanted all the snaps that she had given me in exchange á for the ones I had given her.
4	Unexpected visit by a close friend, whom I hadn't seen for half a á year.
6	[ No response.]
4	I sensed this feeling when I passed successfully the second tour á of a competition.
1	My parents inherited an appartment and this made them behave in a á peculiar manner.
4	I started a new branch of studies after having failed a former á one.  When I got back my exam papers I was very happy to know á that I almost had full marks.
6	At an exam in pharmacology I tried to prompt a coleague (she á asked me something) and the assistant professor made me a sharp á remark.
0	Some noisy guests arrived at the hotel.  I had been slightly á irritated earlier.  At night when I was trying to sleep they were á having a party so I went and yelled at them.  I wanted to sleep á as I had to get up early the next day.
5	I was sad to hear that my brother had a motorbike accident.
3	Not thanking relatives for a favor done.
5	You ignored the fact that we could not hear you at the back.
6	I felt a sense of shame when I compromised a colleague of mine. I á got an information from him which I quite out of place shared á with another colleague of mine and it resulted in an unpleasant á consequence for him.
6	In the last day of carnaval I met a boy and began to flirt with á him. I was in love with him. When he introduced me to his friends á I died of shame because I was with them before, I met my á boyfriend in carnaval.
5	After the fact that made me ashamed I felt sadness.
3	Many years ago a friend wanted me to with her to southern Europe á and I preferred to travel alone.  I felt guilty because I wanted á to go on my own.
4	When I pass an examination which I did not think I did well.
1	I work part-time as a shop-assistant and a customer spoke to me á very loudly about an Indian man & white woman with children - how á horrible that was and would I want to have little dark children.
5	A friend's brother died.
6	I kicked the dog outside on a cold night because he was annoying á me. The next day he came down with the flu and we thought he was á going to die.
4	When I gave birth to a child and saw that it was normal when it á was put against my breast.
1	During a summer holiday at a bar I happened to see a dead to the á world woman.
5	When I think about my parents getting old.
3	I had arranged to meet my friends at a certain place, and I was á with other people.  My friends did not arrive and the people who á were with me began to get tired.  My friends were one hour late.
3	Not doing something I had promised.
4	My boyfriend suffered form ill health for some months, this week á the physician told him that he was restored to health.
1	I was disgusted by my paranoid attitude towards myself, my á homework at university and disgusted about my lack of retention. á Especially in learning another language.
0	The emotion came when a certain boy opened my locker without my á knowledge.
4	When I was with the girl I love very much, for the graduatiion á ball.
6	When I considered writing a load of crap for this emotion.
5	I had a quarrel with a good friend about the fact that I didn't á pay her a visit when she expected me to come. Hereafter I was á very sad because it became a real quarrel.
1	I saw in the street a man spitting.
6	When five of my friends at the secondary school found out the bad á things that I had been saying about them.
0	My younger brother and I had been fighting over the TV/Video. He á kept on turning it on and off every 2 seconds and was not á listening to my authority and was being cheeky. We fought and I á ended up in tears - he'd won.
6	A friend catched me while masturbating. I am not fully sure á whether she saw it or not.
3	At a party, I started talking to a guy I had seen in one of my á classes. My boyfriend felt awkward and left to talk to a friend á but kept on looking at me as I talked.
5	When my cousin passed away unexpectedly and tragically (a á murder).
5	My close friend and I applied to TISS for admission last year, á unfortunately he failed to get admission.  We had done our graduation á together and are quite involved with each other, so we had wanted á to do our Masters degree together.  However, it did not work out á as we had expected it to and this saddened me.
6	I can't remember ever feeling shame.
5	My sister lost one of her twin sons (my first nephews) and then á the older one died a week later.
5	Realizing that school will soon be over, and we will all go á different ways, perhaps never meeting again our friends from this á year.
0	I had got a bad cold. My father said I must be crazy to go by á motorbike at those temperatures. When I answered him that I did á not care about a cold, he said that if I did not care for á anything I could leave him (it was for the second time he said á something like that).
3	Failure to complete medical course as a result of failing fourth á year twice.
1	When my room-mate made a mess of the room after having drunk the á whole night at a graduation party ceremony.
3	"After a quarrel with my mother in which matters were \inflated\"" á enormously."""
6	It was during a school holiday - I was found necking a girl in my á room by my father.
4	"A good friend, the wife of the vicar of my church came up to me á from the pews (I am in the choir) and shook my hand during the á time for an informal \greeting\"" in the church service. She said a á few words."""
4	When  fell in love with my present girlfriend.
1	When working in a chemical laundry, I saw rats and maggots in the á washing.
5	Getting to know that my uncle in America had a brain tumor.
5	Last night I did not do very well in one of the subjects.  Before á the result was announced I feared that I would fail.  Finally I á got a D and as the results of the other subjects were not all      á good I felt a little sad.
1	Can't describe any disgust situation.
2	On the way down a ski slope which was difficult and steep.
1	"My mother called me because she had read through the enveloppe a letter á addressed to me.  She denied having read it intentionally and á said \the words just popped out through the enveloppe as the sun á was shining on it\"". Hah Hah."""
4	After being depressed because of a very bad relationship, my á first love called me and told me that he would always care for me á no matter what I did.
0	A new gas connection was to be installed and the mechanic who came á to do it was very rude to my mother and me.  I rushed to thhe á dealer with my mother and had a fight with the dealer as he á seemed to be unreasonable and was taking the mechanic's side.  á Ultimately the matter was resolved after my father went and spoke á to him.  The mechanic was asked to apologize.
0	When I damaged my wristwatch which I liked very much.
2	Finding out the great difference between China and the West in á science.
3	When I shout at a colleague in classroom.
4	When I had an anticipatory honey-moon with my fiancTe.
5	The death of my guardian with whom I had stayed when I did my á grade six.
4	I realized the girl liked to be with me.
6	One day I was the leader of the weekly meeting of the Church á fellowship.  That day I had been preparing for the exams and did á not estimate the time to travel to the church right and I was á twenty minutes late.  As I had not prepared well I led the á meeting badly.  I was ashamed of myself.  
4	When I passed the university entrance exam.  I had thus finished á with a difficult period of my life and I was about to begin one á which I had desired a lot.
5	When I am at home alone.
5	Finding out that China is still backward in science.
1	When I saw a picture, in the Gothenburg Post, of a totally á demolished car with two fatally injured passengers.  The car was á so badly damaged that they couldn't get the bodies out at the á scene of the accident.
4	When I had my first boyfriend.
5	When my cousin passed away.
1	The time I knocked a deer down - the sight of the animal's á injuries and helplessness.  The realization that the animal was á so badly hurt that it had to be put down, and when the animal á screamed at the moment of death.
0	I saw in a movie a block on which affluence and poverty existed. á I saw that the rich made no attempts to help the poor.
6	When I fell down.
6	I gave a wrong answer at school.
5	Looking up end-of-semester results, and finding I'd failed three á out of seven (subjects).
5	My elder brother had been expelled from college and he was so á frustated that he attempted suicide - he drank bottle fragments.  á I was very sad when I learnt this.
6	When I purposely locked my babysitter out of the house at age 4 á because I DIDN'T LIKE HER.
1	Getting back my math midterm, I received a lower grade than I á thought I would get. After going through the questions I felt á that the grader had graded harshly and I had made only a few ? á errors.
6	When I wanted to kiss a friend and didn't succeed, I felt shame.
4	A friend of mine suggested that I become a film extra.  The idea á seemed very funny to me and my reaction seemed rather outlandish á to the others.
0	With the job appointments committee when the headmaster in charge á explained that a male teacher was more suitable for the á particular post.  I had more years of service than the male á teacher, but this was not taken into consideration.  I could have á been given a less attractive job if things had gone the way the á headmaster wanted.
5	When my mother and father were on an excursion in Chechoslovakia á and I was at a student camp and I heard over the radio about the á events that were taking place there.
5	My Uncle was beaten by his troublesome son. He fell unconscious á and gained consciousness after some time. That time I was at á school; this news reached me through someone.
4	[ On days when I feel close to my partner and other friends.  á When I feel at peace with myself and also experience a close á contact with people whom I regard greatly.]
0	I was most angry when India lost the Triangular Cricket trophy á held in Australia.  I was so angry that I fought (orally) with my á friend.
1	Observation of people lost in the profit motive - i.e. business á managers to their actions esp.
5	My father left us for another woman.
4	I was very happy when I passed and went to form I.  It was a á great relief for me as I had been very worried considering the á large number of pupils who fail.
6	Not doing well in the examn.
1	Some students whose English is worse than mine can go to your á lectures (English lectures).
1	Being looked at by someone I do not like.
0	After a long trip in my dad's van without incident I stopped to á fill the tank with gas and dented the side of the van against the á pole. Then my cars electrical system would not work when I tried á to drive home from his house.
3	Not getting the class paper in time for the lecture.
6	When I was 12 years old I was caught by the Ticket Collector when á travelling without a ticket.
4	When I passed the driving test after three failures.
6	I could have died when I was caught cheating on a test in high á school. That was my first and last time.
0	When I got to know about the reaction of a friend of mine in a á certain situation.  I had not expected him to react that way.
5	After my father died suddenly of a heart attack.
5	I talked to my boyfriend on the phone when I was in high spirits á and had a lot to tell him.  I had been looking forward to this á conversation and he did not listen to me to the extent that I á had anticipated.
2	When we got lost in Florence and the coach did not turn up until á midnight.  I had no place to go to and there were strange reports á at the police station.
4	Occurs frequently. A recent experience: when going out with many á friends, nice music, after the examinations, I felt so happy I á could have embraced everybody.
6	When I was not in a position to control myself.  I had said too á much and had been cruel with no other than my mother.
2	When I saw a large spider crawling up the wall.
2	Left alone in dark when young.
1	When I was about to clean the draining board and saw it looked á underneath the sink (I live in a students hostel).
3	I work at a commercial house from 7 to 10 a.m. On a very cold day á in winter I was late - and let a fellow worker stand in the cold á for half an hour.
2	Students fear many things but we seem to fear the examinations á most of all. I remember I was horror stricken before my á microbiology exam, because it was a decisive one.
0	One of my friends went and told another friend of mine that I was á going abut with another guy in Lilongwe besides the one I had. á She said I was seen with him hand in hand.
2	I came home and discovered that someone had broken in. Then I á realized that they probably were still there.
6	I feel ashamed every time that someone makes me a positive or á negative critic.
5	When I decided not to out any longer with a girl whom I liked á quite a lot.  This made me feel low for a some time.
1	When I entered a brothel and saw two sailors with a young á prostitute who was not older than 18.
0	When my wife told me that the refrigerator had stopped working.
0	[ No response.]
1	I feel disgusted with the bootlickers, with helpless people.
6	"I was working in I. when a friend of mine borrowed his car so I á could get bach there, I had to come to S.Paulo and his car was á here. He said :\When you get the car tell my mother that you are á only taking the car bacause I asked, for she doesn't like me to á borrow it\"". Next day he borrowed me it again for I had to come á back again. When I was coming back I crashed the car quite a lot. á One of the first person I met at the accident was his mother, á that said to me \""You weren't to take the car only yesterday ?\"" á (before I saw her I was already ashamed)."""
5	My brother is a soldier. He promised to come home in a furlough á but in the last moment he phoned and said that he could not come.
3	I destroyed my step-brother's bedsheets by mistake, they were the á only ones he had.
3	A great friend of mine travelled with the intention to change his á life. He didn't succeed and returned depressed. I had not power á to support his frustration and his behavioral change.
5	Death of my father; he died of laryngeal cancer.
1	In the army, an acquaintance of mine tended to use his position á to advance his own interests.
5	When I knew that a person that I liked very much didn't react the á way I would like to, even that I knew about his feelings for me.
0	When my mother treats me as a 10-year old boy.
5	When my dad passed away.
1	Disgust with drunk people.
3	Not being able to convince my class leader that my friend is á better than me to go to the English lectures.
1	Disgust - no. Maybe it is more precise to say revultion at a worm á or a snake. But I mean it in a social aspect when somebody had á behaved like a scoundrel to you, when by his actions he has made á you change your attitude towards him but I thing this feeling the á way I meant it, is not typical for the people interrelations.
3	I took my father's car to church one Sunday (I told them that's á where I was going ) I decided instead to go for a drive to the á beach - on the way I got a puncture.
1	My roommate talking and shaking her bed at night.
2	I was walking home late at night from lectures and someone á deliberately started following me. It was dark and I was scared.
5	When I heard about the death of Frantois Truffaut, the French motion  á picture director, on the radio.  I had planned to go and see his á last film.
5	When my best friend got a boyfriend. Because of this a á relationship of ten years was finished abruptely.
2	A reoccurring fear that something will happen to my relatives.
6	I answered a certain question from Dr. Maqgda wrongly. She asked á something about Femur and my answer was saying something á concerning the brain. So I was very ashamed amongst my friends.
1	There is a person whom I disgust. Evrey time I see her I get this á terrible feeling I disgust her whole appearance.
5	When I heard that my father had been involved in a car accident á in Lusaka.  This happened when he had gone to get the car which á had been stolen in Lusaka.
3	Adultery with a friend's girlfriend.
2	Once, before I had learnt to swim, I stepped on a slippery slope á where there was a lot of moss and I slipped into the water.  The á water was very deep and I could not stand on my feet.  I sank á and had to use a lot of energy.
4	When I got my results ( I had made it to the second year ).
5	[ I feel sad when somebody is unjust to me.]
3	I broke a cup and put it back without telling anyone about it and á someone almost got blamed for it, then it was discovered that it á was me who had broken it.
3	I added a little   ?   to a yield in an experiment to get more of á a yield.
1	A female friend was violently ill on the return journey from a á wedding reception we attended. Getting her out of the car when á home took quite a while.
4	When I fell crazily in love with a beautiful girl and she returned á my love.
2	When there was a fight at home and my father threatened to throw á a chair on my brother.
0	In a conversation my boyfriend expressed definite and quite á pretentious opinions and he took up an attitude towards a theory á which he himself had never known. His information was from á fortuitous sources.
2	Last Summer in Italy I was attacked by a dog.It was terrible to á feel that untidy dirty dog against my naked skin.
6	Again, a quarrel had come up in our difficult relationship.  My á life-partner threw all the books off the shelf.  I am sure that it á disturbed our neighbours since this happened late in the night.
3	A certain woman had asked me to make something for her and I kept á putting it off.  When I finally made it, I did not see her for á days only to be told one day that she had collapsed and died.  I á felt quite guilty as she had jokingly said that I might not do á what she had requested me to do.
5	Since I moved into the dorms and I've been spending most of my á free time with my boyfriend. I hardly see my old high school á friends. I had several bad incidents with my 2 past best friends.
5	A friend of mine lent me his apartment for holidays and besides á this he was a fine person. Months later I knew that he died á tragically in a moto accident. He was very young, and I felt sad á and couldn't believe it (until today).
6	At one occasion I was ashamed of being refused after a proposal á for a friendship with a certain girl. I was ashamed because she á refused publically in the presence of my fellow friends.
4	When my elder brother, who had gone abroad to study  for six á years, came back home safe and in good health.
5	Being bored in school, not being able to marry and have children.
1	Some students deliberately disobey me as a class leader.
5	My mother was ill and my father was not at home.
3	When I shouted at my mother when she was nervous and depressed.
4	"An ex-colleague asked me if I was interested in working in their á accounts bureau.  They needed \clever people\"" and he had á \""immediately thought of me.\"""""
4	When I knew that there were, at last, no problems in making a á journey that I had been wanting to make for a long time.
5	My boyfriend with whom I had a longlasting relationship, fell in á love with another girl, then he asked me something which implied á that he loved that girl more than he loved me.
2	When I was stopped by plain clothes policemen because the car I á was driving had overturned on the Avenue.  I had been driving too á fast, and I was afraid when I was stopped, questionned and then á toild to go.  The situation ended happily since there were no á consequences.
5	[ When after a night of sleeping in another's arms, one wakes á alone and knows that the lonely arms of the night are not the á same that one meets in the morning.]
2	During the last academic year i.e 1983/1984 just before the á closure, we were surrounded and threatened by the paramilitary á forces.
0	After an exhausting day I came home and wanted to take a bath to á relax. My father wanted to take a bath first and when he had á finished after an hour, there was no hot water left for me.
2	Standing in a crowed shop or in a closed room with too much á people in it. This gives me a fearful experience.
1	"I detest any kind of constraint and hate the attempts of elder á people to force me to a norm of behavior without having legal or á moral rights to do it. I felt this emotion when a neighbour of á mine made me kick out my guests because they had talked very á loudly and threatened that with \connections\"" she will expel me á from the inst."""
2	I went to the prayer meeting at night and unfortunately the car á broke down, so my other sister said I had to walk alone from á Ndirande to Chirimba at around midnight. So we reached home at á 1 am. I was afraid of robbers and dardness.
4	I was emotionally happy when I was in love with the girl I had á longed for.
4	Riding home from school after completing two midterms in two á days, and feeling I did well on them.
5	I experienced this when my maternal grandmother passed away.  She á was the last of my grand parents to pass away.
1	"This is an incident that many of us witness in our everyday life á in a city like Bombay.  One day I was travelling by bus, three á men dragged two fellows out of the bus.  Once outside they were á beaten into pulp.  These two fellows, who got beaten, were pick-pockets á and they were being beaten by all and sundry.  I thought to á myself -\what is life?\"".  It is one hell of a place where á everyone is after someone else.  One waits to cut the throat of á the other one just for a living, (money).  When I think about á such things - the purpose of life, etc, I feel very disgusted and á dejected."""
1	The sight of vomit on the street.
5	When I was in primary 6, my father died.  I was very young then á and did not know what had happened.  The weeping of my relatives á and my tears made me sad.
3	A very, very close friend of mine used to come to my room to      á see me and I naver bothered to pay him a visit.  One day he asked á me the reason behind this and I gave him a shirt.
1	I saw a terrible accident in which the driver of a motor was á thrown through the frontwindow of a car. His face was completely á away.
0	I was called racial slurs behind my back.
2	When I was 20 years old, I fell severely ill and was bed-ridden for á 6 months.  I felt very scared for my health and my studies.
0	Quarrel in the family.
3	There were old people in a crowded bus and I did not have the á courage to give them my seat.  I closed my eyes to sleep and then á opened my book to read.  In my heart I wanted to give them the á seat.
1	When I saw our computer teacher.
4	The day that my boyfriend appeared at home with a pair of rings á for our wedding.
0	I gave tutorial to a student and I found that he was lazy, he did á not pay attention to what I taught.  He did some easy questions á wrong deliberately.
4	When my elder sister had a baby girl.  She was the first girl in á the family after 19 years of baby boys.
1	Recently in the tram, a man ran his fingers over my girlfriend á then over me.
5	My friend who was in the Bago was kicked out of the sorority.
6	It was the time when everybody spoke about and discussed á Hainburg. I was also asked for my opinion. I was ashamed because á I had no firm view of the whole thing and therefor was not able á to join the conversation.
2	I met intoxicated people with dubious intentions in a back alley á one Wednesday night.
4	First public speaking.
6	I misunderstood a girl and thought that she loved me.  One day á when I was talking to her, her boyfriend appeared and I felt á ashamed.
0	When I was dismissed unjustly from the firm where I worked, á because there where persons that didn't have problems, and á wouldn't miss in the jobs they occupied if they were dismissed.
1	When thieves broke into our house, I was disgusted by their á behaviour.  They did not find anything so they broke things like á the windows, glasses etc.
4	I went to buy a bicycle with my father. When I wanted to pay, my á father took his purse and payed.
0	In a hurry to get to lectures and the car would not start.
6	"When I was in a bus on my way to the examination centre, a man    á sitting opposite me kept looking at me continously.  I did not know  á what was wrong.  When I reached the  centre I started strolling around  á as I still had a little time.  Suddenly a man came and whispered \You  á have forgotten to zip up your trousers.\""  I was at a loss to say anything  á and I felt very embarrassed.  When I thought of the bus incident I felt  á even more ashamed."""
5	At the begining of a new course one is afraid of encountering á problems one can not manage.  Thoughts revolve around failing á the subject and the consequences it would have for the future.
1	At school, when the only thing people my age could think of was getting á rolling drunk. They couldn't have a good time without firstly á getting drunk.
2	Telling my parents that I did not well in an examn.
3	When I was caught sneaking back into the house at night after á having  gone to a disco without permission.
3	[ Never felt the emotion.]
0	One day in a clinic, the father of a child came in and assaulted á a colleague for something that she had not done deliberately.
4	Receiving notification that I had made a successful application á to the Speech Therapy course at Uni, gave me a very good feelig á of achievment and joy.
4	When I passed the last exam, which I had doudts about.
2	When a man who had a knife grabbed me and threatened me with it,   á during my holidays in Monze.á 
3	When I did not defend my close friend when my father degraded á him. I felt guilty for allowing my father to get away with his á actions and for the hurt my friend felt. I cleared the matter up á with my father a few weeks later.
1	[ There have been very few instances of disgust, as far as I can á remember they are not important or worth mentioning.]
5	A close friend died.
5	Not succeeding in a cross-country skiing competition, which I á intended to win.
2	When my cat ran under a car and came home wounded. He could á hardly walk. I didn't dare to go to a veterinarian because I was á afraid he would kill him.
6	When I realised that I had become too emotionally involved with á the person I'm going out with, and when I began to like someone á else and questioned whether I really care about person I'm with.
3	Once when I complained I caused a great discussion between my á parents.
1	My girlfriend lost her temper without any reason and she did not á consider or respect my feelings.
2	The last time I felt it was when I was coming home late at night.
4	I went to see the entrance examination results at university.  I á rejoyced at my success.
2	Going to CAL not knowing anyone.
0	I am a teacher in arts and crafts (boys from 15-16 years). for á them it is obligatory and they dislike it. They tease me. When one of á them cut up some material I flared up.
3	When I took away my best friend's boyfriend.
0	My parents didn't allow me to go to a social function that all my á friends were attending.
0	My class leader told me I am not chosen for your English á lectures.
4	I felt joy when I was admitted to the Higher Agricultural á Institute.
5	A break-up with someone I really liked.
0	I was waiting behind a car which was going to leave the parking á place, because I wanted to park my car there. Because of uncoming á traffic I had to wait for a short time - another driver placed á his car on the place.
0	Insulted by teacher.
4	The birth of my child.
0	When people harrass me I feel oppressed by their behavior.
6	Whenever I am late, I feel ashamed of myself even though no one á tells me anything.
6	When I first had a sexual intercourse.
1	Was picking up my father from work and on passing through the á Valley watched three prostitutes walk up and down waiting for á someone to pick them up. Clothing was disgusting.
5	My best friend had failed Exams. She had to leave and so we got á separated.
1	When my friend who was drunk insulted me in public for no reason at á all.
3	I felt guilty at not having practised the piano.  I waste my á teacher's time and guidance.
3	My mother always took my side. That brought about quarrels with á my father. I knew she didn't like that and I felt very sorry for á that.
1	In a lift a drunken, fat and untidy man tried to make advances at á me.
5	When my grandfather was sick, and died I felt more sad, though, á when he was sick.
0	When I quarelled with my parents.
6	I felt ashamed to be Brazilian and to live under a military á dictatorship that despoiled the people, when during my military á service.
0	Most recently when the chairman at the New Zeeland Rugby Union á announced that the All Blacks' would accept the invitation of á South Africa to play rugby in that country.
0	New Year's Eve party in the country, I hardly knew a person; my á partner spent most of the time at the bar. I had little á opportunity to get to know people because our table was separated á and my boyfriend's parents were present.
4	I experienced joy when I got the results - I had made it to the á second year.
1	They asked me to throw the rubbish into a dustbin which had some á awful liquid accumulated at the bottom.
2	When I was on a cave excursion with friends, I suddenly lost them á and was afraid of losing my way in the cave.
3	When I didn't notify someone that he was summoned by a headmaster á and as a result he ended being on a heavy punishment.
0	We lived with 3 persons in the loft of a house. It often occurred á that other persons again and again climbed the stairs with much á noise. When I was studying I couldn't concentrate and got angry.
2	In the morning just before going to the dentist.
3	When I told a person something that had happened to my friend, á and this person went and told my friend.
2	I am afraid of my academic results as I will face several á problems.  I am scared of my limitations and the unlimited á problems and I do not know how to cope with them.
4	When I was told that they had got tickets for me for a film á marathon I wanted to see.
0	Exchange of points of view with my sister on a family matter.
0	My peers didn't want me to meet someone during rush for fear that á I would give her a bad outlook on our Sororoty house. I shouldn't á have seen this, but they blew and I did.
6	I was the last among the list of failures in my class of Biology.
0	I felt anger against a person who told bad things about me in my á absence.
5	Watching suffering in Third World country.
0	Once, during a performance I did not sing the way I had to.
6	[ I have never felt this emotion.]
3	When my father told me that I should help my mother more often, á because she was so busy. And I realized that he was right.
4	Finding my glasses again after having lost them in town.
2	Stopped at lights in Mangere late one Friday night on way home á from work. Alone in car when someone came up behind the car and á started banging and shaking it. Light was red and had nowhere to á go until light changed. When green I took off.
2	Disappointment over a friend.
2	At the age of 12 years I always had to take care of my little á brother and sister I never could sleep then. I always imagined á creepy men sneaking into our house.
1	I witnessed a scene in which two women were abusing each other.
6	When the class leader read out the names of those chosen for the á English lecture and I was not on the list.
6	When a person whom I do not want to see is continously present.
5	It happened that I was alone - with no contacts with friends.
0	Nearby the end of the year my wife and I were having a car ride, á when it appears another vehicle, driven by a drunk driver and á provokes an accident.
4	Before Christmas I got to know a girl but our relationshop could á not consolidate before the holiday. Therefore it was a big á surprise to get a carefully hand-made present from her. - Our á relationship grew closer.
1	"A friend and a girlfriend went to Rome for 10 days with their á class. When they were back home I heard people tell \strange\"" á stories about my friend and that girlfriend."""
0	I live by myself and a few weeks ago was woke by a man on the end á of my bed coming up my bed at me. I was really angry, told him to á get out. He was surprised, hesitated; I started to move towards á him and he backed off - kept telling him - loudly, but firmly to á go. Because I'd got the initiative, I succeeded. A very powerful á message.
0	At boarding school someone put a lot of tiny thorns on my bed.  á When I complained everybody began teasing me and laughing at my á inability to find out my enemies.  I lost my temper.
5	Day time robbery of our house.
6	Going out for dinner, or during one ice-cream and four spoons.
6	While playing I urinated on grandma's floor and did not go to the á lavatory.  My cousin told grandma and she came.
3	My mother wrote me and said that I would not writ enough letters á home.
0	At school, a couple of years ago, a so-called acquaintance told lies á about me to a teacher I was told about it by friends who overheard á the conversation.
2	When I was at a boarding school at Lusaka, the Rhodesian á soldiers came to bomb a house near our school and we saw the á whole scene.
0	I am usually angry at myself. This happens often. For instace á when I want to pet without falling in love and it soon proves á that I have fallen in love with him.
6	When I was little - Mum caught me telling a lie about who broke á the cup.
4	"When, to my surprise, I got to know about having got \very good\"" á high school graduation marks."""
1	Doesn't apply.
3	When one of my parents insinuates something about the other á (they are divorced).
5	When I part with my friends I feel always sad for some time. I á can't remember a concrete example now. For example I have just á parted with a friend of mine and I am feeling sad.
4	When, for example, I was in my eleventh school year and I learned á I had been classed for the Bulgarian Language and Literature á National Olympiad.
5	My got my mathematics test's marks and could not believe that it á was true.  In the past I would have at least 80% marks.  Was I á getting weaker at studies ?  This made me feel that I should not á expect too much from going to the university.
0	I went out dancing and found my boyfriend kissing another girl.
4	I was spending the week-end with some friends.  We were waiting á for another friend and we went to the meet him at the bus stop, a  á woman we met there told us that the coach had already left.  I á was afraid that I would not see my friend, but at last we found á him.
4	When I was a child, my beloved cat gave birth to four beautiful á little kittens. Before she had them, she came up to me and I á followed her out, then witnessed them being born.
2	I could not do the questions on my math midterm.
0	When a very close friend with whom I have a very intimate and á bodily relationship (he had a girlfriend) started to avoid me and á didn't want to talk to me any more.
2	Being very close to having an auto accident, almost driving off á the road.
6	When I made an end on a relationship after three years.
0	When at very short notice I agreed to work in place of a friend á who was sick, and owner of the restaurant refused to allow me a á drink later in the evening (which is usually always available for á workers), did not thank me, and was generally indifferent towards á me - I felt I did not deserve this.
6	When I am in an auditorium with people and I ask a silly question á so that everyone starts to laugh.
5	When I could not do anything because of a bad back.
6	I bacame involved with a boy for a very brief moment not because á I liked him but because I needed some sort of company. The á consequences weren't as I expected and caused me much shame.
3	Heard that my girl-friend was chosen for the English lectures and á I was not. I lost my temper and she is very upset now.
0	I experienced anger most recently when I had committed a sin á which I had gone a week and a half without doing. I had made a á vow to God and had blown it. Now I had to start all over.
2	When I was a child, I had a terrible nightmare with St. Nicholas' á Devil Servant. I asked my mother if he really existed and she á said yes. The following nights I could not sleep and a á light had to be left turned on.
0	In a sociology class I felt very angry towards some members of á society for exploiting the Polynesian people, dawn raids by á Police (Martin Luther King, Blacks in S.A.). But this was just a á reflection of my own shortcomings.
2	Being involved in a car accident and having my thumb caught in á the glove compartment. My sister and I had a Fear of finally á telling my parents, since my sister was the driver.
2	Practicing wind-surf my body was caught under the sail. On trying á to get out my leg was caught in the lashing. I was afraid of á dying by asphixia.
5	When I received the news that my in-laws had passed away.  I á depended heavily on them for their guidance and the running of á their daughter's buisness.
0	When I was subjected to a very nasty joke by a group of friends.
3	When I shot a bird in the head with a shotgun.
6	Not being able to be selected for the dancing team.
6	When I was in grade one, one day I felt like going to the toilet á during class but I was very scared of the teacher so I urinated á in the class.
3	[ No response.]
2	I needed a recommendation for something. I decided that the best á person to get one from was a professor who I had never talked to á before. I felt a lot of fear going up after class to ask him to á recommend me considering he had never heard my name before. But I á did.
2	I was attacked by a man at a bus stop at night.
2	I found a problem in homework which would not get solved although á I tried my best.
4	When I meet old past pupils of mine - and find they are all doing á well - I feel joy. Yesterday I met a young woman (20 yrs) I'd á taught her at 6 yrs, then at 12 yrs and hadn't seen her for last á 3-4 yrs; she was no longer a waitress but a meter maid for á Council.
3	"When I \hated\"" one of mmy flatmates who was nice to me."""
0	When my aunt scolded me for something I was not responsible for.  á A boy had come to our gate asking for me, my aunt went out to see á him.  I had neither met nor known the boy.
1	My boss on the job failed to keep his promise about something he á knew was extremely important to me.
6	When I was 6 or 7 years old, I pulled down the trousers of a á friend because I wanted to know what she looked like. My mother á watched that and (as a punishment) sent me into the house. We á never spoke about that; I think it was as embarassing for her as á it was for me. 
3	When I had lied to a friend/son about some things we had á discussed and I had to be one better.
4	Found money on the road and returned it to the owner through á police.
2	When I came home late one day. I was afraid I would be shouted at á by my parents.
4	When my daughter was born.
0	Going to Cowell Hospital and finding out tediously that I had a á stress fracture. The anger came when the senile doctors found out á 4 weeks later that I had 2 stress fractures in one foot and á should have had crutches. I was in distinct pain and barely could á walk to classes. They said it would be better in 2 weeks.
2	"Once I was stopped by the police in Spain, when I had some á \grass\"" in my tobacco."""
3	When I had sufficient amount of money, I brought more clothes for á myself than for the children - I  felt bad about it.
4	When I first came to the campus.
4	When my application for studying the masters degree was accepted. 
0	When I had been obviously unjustly treated and had no possibility á of elucidating this.
4	At a choral concert I appeared as a solist. The concert5 was very á good, I forgot all the hard work that had been done before. There á remained only an undescribable joy and a feeling of warmth, á security etc.
3	I was with a girl one night and then did not call her again, á although she had asked me to do so.
6	I was supposed to do something and didn't. The person was really á dependiong on me.
4	I was appreciated by others, especially my family members and my á friends.
2	One day, when I realized that I was alone, I felt fear of á loneliness.
4	Receiving a much wanted letter from a very good friend who lives á abroad.
6	When I went to explain to a lecturer whom I liked that the work á expected of me was not going to be in.
2	The night before my wife had given birth to our twins. I felt á fear in the hospital yard, I feared if everything was going to be á in order.
5	Losing my job that I had for 4 summers. I took it personally and á cried for 6 hours off and on. I wanted to hide away and did for a á few days.
1	Seeing persons spending money in a shopping center with á completely indifference to the misery reigning in our country.
4	Being chosen to do this experiment.
2	After a footballmatch I went home by car, a friend drove. I did á not realize that he was drunk until we were in the car. He was á madly racing. Several times we were in dangerous situations and I á told him to be cautious, but he did not care.
1	Hearing of a filthy situation over the phone.
2	Watching a horror film.
3	I do not help out enough at home.
5	When my aunt, whom I had loved very much, died. When I heard á about her death, I was not as touched as at the funeral. I really á became conscious of her death at that moment.
3	Eating too much I felt guilty afterwards because I knew I á shouldn't have overeaten as I'm putting on too much weight.
0	"I was on vacation, and therefore I did not attend a meeting of á the day care centre.  Nevertheless, the very day I came back they á called me early morining to ask me \what are you going to do á about the matter ?\"" (which had been discussed in the meeting).  á Then I got angry."""
5	Finding out my best friend cannot go to the English lectures.
4	When I was in a situation which seemed hopeless for me, I moved á back to my parents. For my father it went without saying anything á (normally he ofter grumbles at me).
4	After having finished my B.Sc, I was struggling hard to continue á my studies and had taken the M.SC exam.  I was not sure that I á would be selected in the written exam.  When I saw my name in the á selected candidates list I was overjoyed.
0	At having an argument with a stranger, in the street.
5	When on Christmas day my grandmother died. I received the á news when I was coming back from a party on the 24th at 5 am.
2	Once I spent a night with a friend at the secondary school. We á told each other horror stories and suddenly we heard uncanny á noises. I was terribly frightened.
4	When I was with someone I love.
2	"When I saw the movie \Poltergist\""."""
1	I am disgusted with a nieghbour who is looking for all sorts of á quarrel with my parents and me. He feels we are hampering his á living close to us. This has been going on for quite a long time.
5	My dog, whom I had had for eleven years, died. I watched his á soporification.
0	I went to the school library and asked for a book, but the á librarian told me that there wasn't such. However when an other á colleague asked for it she gave it to him.
0	Someone stole my ski at Vitosha and of course I was the one to be á blamed. I left them without supervision.
5	When my grandfather died, with whom I had a very close á relationship.
5	I was terribly upset when my kitten got hit by a car. He didn't á die, but for several weeks we thought he might have to be put á down.
6	Telling friends about how my parents had been treating my á brothers and sisters unfairly.
3	I remember about an unpleasant event in relation to my mother. I á felt guilty before her.
3	Years ago I ran away from home which disappointed my parents.
0	I was very angry when my friend lost my practical's journal, á which I needed to study for the exams.
1	"My classmate got a \B\"" for his homework while I only got a \""C\"".  á When we got the results he acted as if he did not merit this á grade.  I found that his humility was hypocritical and I found it á disgusting."""
0	Being insulted by my roommate (she is in the English Class).
1	I cannot remember exactly such a situation. But I know that á once I went to a very dirty lavatory and that disgusted me.
0	I had made an error in planning a programme and had publicly á accepted the mistake, despite repeated requests not to bring the á matter for discussion a professor kept constantly passing remarks. á I reacted angrily.á  
4	When someone made me a compliment after an examination just at á the moment I needed it. It was amicable, hearty and sincere.
3	When ,due to hunger and tiredness, I became generally irritated á with my fiancee and made cutting remarks which really hurt him.  á Later I realized that my unfounded irritation had hurt the person á I love most on earth.
6	Defying my parents and staying out all night when I wasn't á supposed to.
4	I felt a great joy when I knew that my father was going to sell á the apartment from GUARUSA, because in some way we were helded by á it, that means that we didn't go to any other place, because we á had the apartment.
4	Reading a letter from a close friend who said he missed me and á cared for me.
3	I did not reply to my friend's letter in time. 
5	The death of a relative, friend, or someone I esteem.
2	Having a car accident.
3	When I flew out to my mother and made rude remarks because I felt á so tense (studied too hard for an examination).
6	Not doing well in an examn which was easy.
4	I had a summer job in Sweden, and my boyfriend came to meet me on á my birthday.
0	When stupid people push me during rush time in the city.
3	A friend of mine had the sleeves of a leather coat stolen from á his car.  It was me who had left them there for everyone to see.
3	After I reluctantly refused to dine with a certain man on the á same table.
6	Equivocal situation when filling a security questionnaire on á entering a government building with several people there.
0	When my mother interfered in my life.
6	"Some time back I had signed a letter which I had not read.  What á had happened is that something had been written against my á friend and this went to the higher authorities.  My friend asked me  á -\you also signed ?\""   """
3	I felt guilty when I was found to be the chief leader of making á noise in class.
3	I was driving a friend's car, and I got close to the pavement to á ask my way and I struck a parked car.
0	Being a spokesman for the union, I got into a quarrel with a á colleague who had been acting disloyally over a sustained period á of time.
5	When I was 10/11 years old my father travelled very much for his á work (he passed three months away from home).
5	[ No response.]
0	My flatmate was asking questions about my relationship with my á boyfriend, whether I wasn't treating him as unfairly as I claimed á he'd been treating me. As a result, I was angered, and became á defensive.
2	My friend started to misunderstand and hurt me. 
1	A dirty person, smelling bad and unknown laying on me.
5	It was when I failed standard 8 exams while all my friends á passed and went to secondary school. In class I was always á getting more marks than they did.
2	I went to practice in Sweden during summer, and I was afraid that á I would not do well.
2	A close relative of mine died in a serious car accident.  I was á one of the first two people to see the corpse and I had to do it. á  Before going in to see it I was afraid as it was the first time á that I was seeing a corpse.
3	I was going around with a girl without loving her.  Not only did á I go around with her, but we did many more things.  In the end I á was not very sincere to her.
5	Sitting in a bus, I heard behind, the voice of a girl I was á friendly with. After her talking for some time with another girl á I decided it wasn't her in fact that someone miming her, which it á was when I finally looked. I was talking to a friend at the time.
0	We were starting a student project, and the teacher we talked to á was very negative and not very helpful.
0	[ When bad and disgusting language is uttered by people, or when á someone tries to show what is beyond his own capacities.]
4	Got through first semester University.
3	This feeling comes frequently when I go out at night and tell my á mother that I shall come back early. But then I get home a 5 or 6 a.m.
2	[ Never experienced.]
6	When I don't say the truth, when I don't do a certain thing á thanks to my laziness.
4	Begining the week-end with my girlfriend : cozyness, beer and á wine.
3	When I was involved in a car crash.
4	Achievement of a task by a friend who had begun a new job. She á wasn't confident of handling the situation so was thinking  of á leaving the job only after 2 days employment.
2	When I impregnated a certain girl, I thought that I would be á forced to marry her or go to court.
4	I was joyful when I received a present (2 books and a pencil) á from the headmaster in standard 6 because I had passed, I became á No 1 and he said I was one of the pupils who had good behaviour.
3	I beat up a female friend after I heard the defamatory stories that á she had been telling.  I was later called to explain my á behaviour.
0	"Seeing for the first time pictures about the so called á \treatment\"" of Jewish people in Nazi-Germany during World War II."""
2	We were driving at night and I realized that a car was following á us.
2	Before giving a seminar to a rather large audience.
5	Having to decide on a termination of a pregnancy, after á discussing it with friends, family and the man involved.
4	When the parents of my girlfriend gave permission to spend our á holiday together.
6	I had borrowed some money and I exceeded the time-limit.
1	In contact with a poor family of northeast it was offered to me a á crab to eat at my request. But the fact that this crab was á prepared antihygienically and his appearence was also á antihygienically it caused me disgust but I ate it anyway.
2	Afraid of getting alone without friends, without anybody.
4	When I passed the first year and so I could come back for my á second year.
1	In a certain occasion I saw a dog in the street eating something á so strange gooey that I wasn't able to eat lunch because I á remembered the scene all the time.
0	It was when my Instructor awoke me late at night to get prepared á for the training at Military college when he was coming back from á his personal social activities.
5	I was watching a sunset after my latest boyfriend left me and I á realized that we would never watch sunsets again, probaly never á see eachother again and none of it mattered.
1	My parents attitude towards each other when they should become á reconciled, despite my father's long-time addiction.
0	When a friend and me played a joke on our boyfriends.  Her á boyfriend came up and accused me of having planned the whole á thing and said that I did not deserve my boyfriend.  He á embarassed me in front of a crowd.
5	When my grandmother died.
3	Sleeping through crew practice one Monday morning.
5	I felt very sad when my boyfriend wanted to break our á relationship. Our relationship lasted two years, we shared á everything and all this was finished.
6	This happens to me when I am not prepared in a given subject.
4	"My girlfriend wrote to me telling me that she was four months á pregnant and that I was responsible for the \damages\"".  This made á me happy as I longed to have a child to call mine."""
2	At about midnight I had to go by bike through Graz alone. On the á whole it was a distance of several kilometers. A car followed me á through the streets. Only when I went into a one-way street the á car disappeared. The rest of my way home I was very afraid.
0	Bad food in the students' dining hall.
3	I had quarelled with a friend of mine and I later realized that á it was also my fault.
0	I had a very good friend in secondary school.  The year after our á graduation I prepared to celebrate her birthday and I called off á all my appointments.  I got together the other friends and we á were ready to give the entire day to her.  However this friend á disappeared on her birthday.  When I phoned another friend I á didcovered thay she was busy, I did not call her anymore.
2	When I crashed my car.
4	When I found out that I had passed the last two exams by a á margin of three marks.
2	One afternoon, helping at home on the property, I was á (mustering) getting in cattle and a bull turned and came for me.
0	When I was put into a tennis team below my standard.
1	Sort of awkward. I'd introduced (a lover) but introduced as a á friend to some members of my family, and my niece Yavanna who's á six was home from school and at Mum's and Dad's and was really á silly and at first it was ok, but it went on and on - yukky pooh! á You eat your snot, etc. and I felt cross she wouldn't stop. But á she had an audience and was in one of those moods. Once I'd á accepted it was something everyone does at time I felt better - á it was partly having my friend there.
0	Brother took my money to use for his own purposes.
3	Always, and this happens often when I do not keep my word.
4	When the Real Madrid team of basket ball qualified for the final á of the Europe Cup at Athens.
1	I felt disgust when I realized that I had eaten something fatty, á and vomited too much.
2	We were walking in the park at night.  It was very dark and very á late.  We began to hear foot steps all around us, and we could á not find our way out.
4	Talking with a nice girl.
0	I felt anger at my roommate due to his habit of leaving dirty á dishes in the sink and generally not cleaning after himself.
6	When I got very low marks in one of the assignments.
0	I was disappointed and angry at the bad quality of a documentay á program on TV.  In my opinion, the topic was important and the á program should have been made with seriousness and consideration.
2	As a child - stepping on a rusty nail - being told that I might á get tetanus.
1	When I failed the grade 7 twice and only passed it the third á time.
3	When I scored the third goal to my own side at a football match á against William Murray Secondary School and we were badly á defeated.
2	When I was feeding a premature baby (7 months), the baby chocked. á This was when I was working in children's ward I thought I had á killed the baby.
5	A girl I love does not love me.
3	When my grandfather was in a nursing home when I was young I never á wanted to go and sometimes didn't have to and later I felt á guilty.
1	When I heard the bad news about the death of a close person.
0	A ex-boyfriend tried to prejudice me before my fiancT and his á family saying things about me that let his family worried. We had á to postpone our wedding and we were already using our wedding á rings. To be honest I didn't feel just anger, I felt hate.
0	I had a date with my girlfriend, the time and place had not been á fixed.  I asked her to phone me an hour later as it was midnight á and I did not want to disturb her family.  I waited several hours á for her call, she did not call me that night.
4	I most joyous moment was the day I got my marks.  I was very á happy when I came to know about my marks at the M.Sc (part I) á examination where I got 71.5%.  This was the highest marks I have á ever scored in my life.
2	That I would do bad in a class and not get into Bus school.
1	It was when my father beat my mother while she was ill for three á weeks and now she was recovering.
4	When i was asked to be a child's godmother.
4	A good report card (a scholarship) in primary school.
1	I was travelling, we were 15 person, one of them I met at the á travel and didn't like her. One night I was asleep while she and á her friends were talking too loud in the kitchen. I got up to ask for á silence and since that day I felt constant disgust for her.
3	My schoolmates were teasing a pupil who was not able to defend á himself very well; I should have taken his part.
6	[ Cannot recall any incident when I felt shame.]
6	I was complaining about calling people whom I didn't know. I á forgot that the purpose is to invite people for dinner and get to á know them.
3	When I answered to my mother with rudeness.
2	Skiing down a very icy slope, very fast in white-out conditions. á Out of control with no idea of what I was doing or where I was á heading.
4	When I passed a very important exam.
4	When I won the best prize in the National science fair.
2	Facing a mad dog.
6	Upon returning from a journey of about two weeks duration, I á found that a collection of pornographic literature had been á removed from my room I had previously thought that no one was á aware of the existence of this material.
6	The time I shouted at most of my friends at a party.  It was as if á  all my friends had done something wrong, or may be it was the á influence of the beer.
1	I saw part of a Prince video with him crawling out of a bath tub.
2	It was when I stepped on a python (snake) unknowingly while it á was sleeping near a baobab tree.
2	"When a car ran into me. The moment that I felt on the street I á thought \This is my end, I am going to die\""."""
0	I feel angry at people's indifference at our ability to be á present at an event and to stay partial to what happens.
5	When the man I loved decided to leave me forever.
5	When my father died.
0	When a close friend did not write.
2	Being close to drowning.
1	My roommate being nice to a party leader in order to get into the á party.
3	I was once called in court in Zemba Traditional court to answer a á charge of impregnanting a young lady, I felt guilty for she had á some letters which I used to write her as an exhibit in court.
4	When I got engaged to a boy of my choice.
2	When I was cycling to school, I nearly got knocked down by a car á which (overtook me too closely) did not give me any swerving space.
0	When someone I trusted very much, disappointed me.
5	When my brother died.
6	When my father came into the bathroom and saw me standing there á naked.
3	Some time ago I took the driving test. I did answer the á theoretical questions very well, but I failed the practical á driving test. It was my fault because I had not enough practice.
1	Saw my roommate messing up our room.
1	When I saw an insect going up my arm.
5	Leaving Melbourne to move interstate - leaving relatives and á friends behind.
1	I felt it when I saw a colleague of mine eating like a beast. At á the same time he was making gestures, speaking and making the á hell of a noise.
6	Parents finding out I smoked.
6	At the funeral of my uncle, I was one of the bearers.  I was not á familiar with the etiquette and acted tactlessly because of my á ignorance.
3	I felt it when playing I pushed my brother and he fell down á cutting himself in pieces of tile.
0	During an argument between friends, one of them accused me of á taking advantage of some other friends who usually come to the á university in my car, saying that I ask them too much money for á the petrol.
0	Being slandered by friends.
6	I do not have accomodation on the campus so I stay with my á extended family, one young man used bad words while asking me to á leave their home.
2	A friend gave me a lift and we met a road-block.  He tried  to á turn back when an officer shouted at us to stop.  My friend took a á turn suddenly and the officer raised his gun but by the time we á were gone.
0	Had an argument with my classmate for borrowed books.
6	An exam where questions about very specific knowledge were asked.
2	When my sister was very ill and was admitted to the hospital.
1	I was disgusted with my girlfriend's behaviour. She was going out á with other boys who were also my friends.
3	I felt guilty when I heard the results of my friend, who had á failed.  I wished that I had helped him.
1	I met a girl (22 years old), married. I liked her. I asked her á for a date and I kissed her. I discovered that she lived nearby á where I passed every day. I got amused thinking that her husband á would be ... or me . I didn't talked to her anymore.
6	A situation where we were the center of attention, and things á happened without my control on them, that showed our disagreement, á and ignorance.
6	I feared that I would have to describe my sexual life to an á older, strange woman.
2	I was very scared at the time of the Ty.B.Sc examination as I had á decided to get 1st class results.  I was afraid thinking of how á the papers would be.
0	I am separated from my husband.  The way he has behaved towards á me makes me angry.
3	When I had had the possibility to act or to do certain activity á better but I had not done it because of reluctance or á carelessness.
3	Not finishing homework in time.
0	When I was accused of having refused to do some hostel work while á I was at school.  Actually I had not been allocated any work.
3	I went to a friend's baptism as she became a Christian after me á and I realized that she was more enthusiastic about her spiritual á life than I was.  When I was with my brothers and sisters of á Christ I had a guilty feeling which could not be dismissed á easily.  When pepole asked me as to when I would be baptised my á guilt feeling deepened.
0	When I first saw a person begging.
2	When my son fell off the cot at the age of 5 months, I became á very nervous and thought that it would cause defects in his head.  
2	The possibility of having failed the examination.
4	When I was accepted to study at this school I was very happy.
0	Being stopped by the police for a traffic offence which I don't á think I committed.
2	I was in the house at night and I heard a hyena crying outside. á It cried for almost an hour and I feared it might break the á window and enter inside the house.
5	My boyfriend didn't turn up after promising that he was coming.
5	Due to some reasons my boyfriend and I decided to separate.
4	"I was feeling really low - had been a series of fights with my á siblings, been under pressure at school and wasn't going to the á party I wanted to go - instead I was going out with my family. A á guy called and said, in effect, that I was \nice\"" and he liked á me. Hence the emotional joy."""
5	When I got separated from my first love.
0	During the Xmas holiday, I and my best friend at Secondary School á had planned to meet at a Cultural afternoon at the Mt. Soche á Hotel after missing each other for such a long time. When I asked á my mother for permission, she told me not to go for no good á reason. I felt very angry with her.
5	Three weeks ago a friend of mine bid me good-bye before going á abroad.  I felt happy for her as she was achieving something by á making the trip, but I also felt sad as I would not be seeing her á for a long time.
3	I forgot to water the flowers in our flat and was rebuked by my á friends who share the flat with me.
5	Some colleagues decided to go out on a Saturday not inviting me á to decide either the place nor the time.
0	At my Summer job, nobody looked after me in particular and I had á to learn all on my own.
0	When I saw my brother being attacked and I could not do anything.
4	When my fiancee travelled 2000 Km to visit me, and I hadn't seen á her for 4 months.
4	When I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal saviour.  
1	With a Manager who insists on making crude innuendos pertaining á to sex.
6	I found I was pregnant and unmarried.
1	Having been unjustly punished, I feel disgust towards the person á responsible.
4	While dancing in a restaurant last week.
5	The person whom I liked most left me for a friend of mine, after á several months of mutual help and a profound knowledge of each á other.
1	Some students talking when other people are having a nap.
5	[ No response.]
1	I went to eat at my aunt's house and she served macaroni with a á horrible appearence. I felt the sensation above. The worst was á that I was practically obliged to eat.
1	On a camp - boys and girls in one cabin. One guy forced himself á upon another girl and was having intercourse, while the girl in á the bunk beneath was pretending to be asleep and not be ill.
2	One evening I was watching the news on TV. Again they were á talking about the danger of war. Suddenly I imagined what it á might mean for me, for my friends, for the people close to me. I á felt it a very near and possible event.
2	Fear from the unknown. I felt fear when I sat for the entrance á examinations.
3	When I was 5, a few of my friends and I would light matches for á fun. One of my friends confessed to her parents and my parents, I á guess, knew or suspected I was involved but I said I knew á nothing about it.
2	When my son has a pain in his leg (for no apparent reason).  
1	Obscene phone calls.
6	Taking part in the mobbing of some girls in my class in primary á school.
5	Felt sad about some street kids in QUEII square, Aotea square. á Because they had been sniffing glue and some were very young. I á went into the role of a performing clown.
2	My roommate refused to walk with me to the English lectures. I á have to walk alone in the dark. Lectures are in the biology á building.
5	General Ye Jianying died.
4	My admittance to the University.
0	Uncleaniness at my work place.  The place is generally not very á clean, but when it reaches a point, I get angry at the person á who is supposed to clean the place and the people who are á supposed to supervise him.
6	Sitting on the bus seats supposed for disabled people, children á and old people (by mistake)
1	When I saw a wino by some cans with Food Stamps and use the á change to buy wine.
1	Noticing my flat had maggotts !
2	I was walking along a subway when I saw a group of louts.  I was á rather afraid because I was alone.
2	Can think of no time that I have felt fear.
5	My grandmother died suddenly last summer.
5	After my boyfriend and I had separated.
5	The end of a relationship (after 4 years) by doing this I hurt á the other person very much.
1	I was travelling in a local train when a drunkard, smelling á terribly, entered the same carriage and started eating fish that á was stinking.
3	That I didn't want my friend to leave on holiday for 10 days á because I thought I would miss him. I was constantly trying to á persuade him.
2	Slept in a chapel and in the middle of the night I realized that á there was someeone else in the chapel.  I never discovered who á it was and why he was there.
6	When I was in the canteen of the United college I mistook a á stranger for a classmate as I was not wearing my glasses.  I á realized that I had made this mistake when I saw him again á carefully.
6	Because I was lazy and unthoughtful I did not get into contact á with a very close friend when she shifted from the Gold Coast to á Brisbane, for a month, despite her efforts to contact me. I felt á shamed when I finally confronted her again.
6	My brother came to see me and found me with a boy friend.  When á my boyfriend greeted him, he did not answer and instead started á shouting at me and scolding me in the prescence of my boyfriend.
2	Before examination.
0	"I had a very heavy work load and two colleagues, whom I have á nothing against, disturbed me by \terror ringing\"", i.e á continously interrupting me by telephoning."""
3	I took some money from my parent's house without asking them for á it, and I was caught red handed.
3	I stole a coconut cake from a reception table and when I put á in my mouth I realized that the host was watching me.
1	Being on view in a meat-factory. Pigs being cut open, pigs being á suspended from nods, blood everywhere, decompsition.
1	When a classmate of ours knocked on our door at 2 o'clock in the á morning.  I was disgusted at his behaviour.
1	When I had to finish those big amounts of homework in time.
1	A friend prepared a soup with chicken heads and invited me to eat á it. I saw the eyes staring at me and the tongues hanging out of á the bills. I was so disgusted that I felt nausea and had to leave á the room.
1	I felt disgust when I received visitors at an odd hour. I was á seriously preparing for Examinations, so I did not appreciate á their coming.
5	When I was a child I had a grass-parakeet I liked very much. His á legs were crippled so that he could not move very fast. Once I á came into the room, did not notice him and stepped on him. A few á days later he died.
2	Two guys were fighting murderously and I feared that one of them á would be killed.
6	I think that I am rather shy and do not mix with people as I á would have liked to, out of shyness.
0	When my father's new fiancee treats me like a child.  She does á not trust me and constantly misunderstands me.  I get á particularly angry when she says nasty things about my boyfriend á with whom she works.
4	When I went for a picnic in Lonavala, I felt full of joy.
5	I was to meet a girl in a discotheque.  She was very pretty and I á was very happy.  But she did not turn up.  Thank God, there were á some other friends there and I was able to have a more or less á good time.
2	When I was caught in an elevator and it got stuck between floors.
6	I spent an evening with my girl-friend. When we wanted to go to á bed I was totally drunk. Next morning I felt rather ashamed.
5	When I realized that my girlfriend, whom I like, and I were going á to separate.
1	I was disgusted with the behaviour of one of my fellow students á during my Secondary School life. He was a habitual noise-maker á and caused great conflicts with the teachers.
3	When I took drugs.
1	Four weeks ago I felt very much touched to find an asciatic á patient who had asked the very morning to be tapped of the fluid, á dying in the evening. I was really disgusted because this was the á Medical staff's negligence. Had the Clinical officers done á something that very morning he might have been alive today.
0	I took part in a football match. The referee was extremely á partial to the opposite team. This stirred up my discontent and á anger.
6	When I made a fool at an examination.
1	During the PY 102 film session on Tuesday, one of the films shown  á was of an experiment on a live cat involving strapping it into a á machine for possibly days, and doing things to its brain.
4	When I got a good grade for an exam in statistics.
6	Once as a school girl I was copying at a class work and my á teacher spotted me.
3	In September 1984 I got two girls pregnant and the families of á both the girls confronted me .  The fact was that my parents were á around and I felt guilty answering some of the questions.
4	Managed to run 30 Km on skis fairly simply.
3	Made a mistake at work.
1	Can't remember having had this feeling.
2	When I am walking on the streets and see a gang of thugs.
4	The moment I got the news that I had been selected for the U.G.C á junior national research fellowship.  It was a dream come true.
3	Arguing with my younger cousin.  She is rather a nuisance but I á felt sorry.
6	When I was little and didn't own up to placing a lolly on the á varnish, this pulled it all off and I didn't admit my guilt.
4	I had just moved to the town where I study and I got a postcard á from a good friend (from my home town).
2	One evening I saw the old guard-man I knew, change into something á inhuman for about 5-10 seconds, this really frightened me.
5	[ No response.]
1	When a member of the family complains about the food that is á served, it disgusts me.
0	The doctors from Belogradchik town determined a wrong diagnosis á to my son. A month later, after some complex examinations at ISUL á (A medical institute in Sofia), the diagnosis was categorically rejected.
2	When I was told to attend an operation in theatre.
6	I feel ashamed at the fact that even after 35 years of independence   á 70% of the Indian poulation is still below the poverty line.
4	Getting into this university.
1	[ When I see that the toilet is unclean.]
5	My sister was in coma for 3 months (due to a train accident). Now á her brainfunctions are disturbed. She will never be able to walk á and she can hardly talk.
6	I was eating in a very nice restaurant, when the servant asked á whether I liked the food I told him that I liked it but that á there was one thing which wasn't so good. The servant than worked á very hard to make it good.
4	"After attending a song contest proposed by a band called \Chyne\"" á we (6 of us) waited for the members of the band to greet us in á front of the stage.  We went out after a few minutes as it was á time to close the hall.  We had been waiting at the entrance hall á for ten minutes when three of the band members came out.  They á were very excited to see us, one of them was so excited that he á had tears in his eyes.  We felt very warm and close to each á other.  They took us back into the hall and we talked freely.  We á were together for about an hour and during this time we felt á that they were very sincere."""
5	It was at the time of my M.Sc exam, when I was not in a position á to take the exam after having studied seriously.
1	To loose friends because of them over-estimating themselves.
0	Insulted for no reason.
3	[ Can not think of anything just now.]
3	This I experienced when going around with more than one girl.
6	My behaviour at a recent party.  I passed out early, luckily.
1	When I visited a creche. The conditions weren't too precarious á but the children were in conditions of physical and emotional á penury.
0	A member of a religious sect tried to convert me, using really á evil tricks to persuade me.  After he had left, I was anxious and á angry for a long time. After the event, I was alone.
3	[ No response.]
1	When a man spoke very sexistly in the company of some friends of á mine.
0	Being insulted in front of my parents, and they believed other á people (those insulting me).
3	When I was caught with another man's wife.  I had taken the á opportuinty as this man was abroad but he returned that night.
0	When I tried to explain to a plumber, face to face, that the á toilet was broken and he did not believe it (it had been mended á ten times).
2	When I decided to separate from my husband.
4	My boyfriend was playing with my cat. He was playing games with her á and telling nice things to her. 
1	When I heard that my sister had shouted at my friend's cousin at á their place.
1	When I failed to secure employment after my form 5 in Lusaka despite á my excellent certificate.
2	When I was very young and we moved as a family to Auckland from á Wellington, this meant new school and friends (etc.).
1	A girl with whom I was staying having sex with a person for about á 3 nights running, and then with his brother the following night, á and back again.
0	I was really angry when the President general of UNZASU was á arrested by policemen.
3	I got angry at my mother for something trivial.  We were in a á bad mood because my father was very ill and I knew that my mother á really needed support.  I had reacted wrongly.
5	When I failed an exam last Summer.  I had worked very hard for it á and I was very disappointed thinking that it was hopeless to á continue at college.  I did overreact.
4	The day I was told that I had passed my Malawi School leaving á Exams and I was selected to go to college.
5	That afternoon I received two messages informing me, one that my á brother was in a coma in the U.T.H suffering (kidney disease) and á two, that my uncle met with an accident on his way to the hospital á  to see my brother.
2	My friend and I planned to search for old documents and utensils á in the cellar. It was very late at night when we arrived in the á cellar. He indicated the place where the police (40 years ago) found á two dead bodies. I got very scared when he told me this story.
1	Eco-activists demonstrated against a project to build a power station á at the Danube in the middle of a lowland forest (Hainburg) and á the government decided to delay it for another year. When my á father heard about it, he said that we needed another Hitler.
2	When I was coming back home alone at night.
4	Passing an exam I did not expect to pass.
0	A father helping his kid to fight other kids.
1	I have an adopted Aboriginal sister I felt disgust due to the á racism she has been subjected to.
6	After a party I spent the night with a friend. We both were á drunk, the morning was disillusioning. A friend was me leaving á the room and I felt shabby and immoral.
3	In Biarritz (the South of France) I met some English students á who, especially for me, went to Paris and gave me food, while I á didn't have any more money.
6	When I got 1 mark in an Abnormal Psychology exam.
5	Tonight in bed when I realised how bad my relationship with my á friend was.
5	My grandmother died.
2	"Motorcyclistic accident where for some minutes I didn't know if I á was alive or dead, I remained \cold levered\"" during the situation á but felt great fear."""
1	I had prepared a special meal for my boyfriend but when my á brother came home he ate it all.  I was really disgusted about it.
4	My friend took me to Civo Stadium to watch and listen to the á music of the International singer Sam Mangwana. I had no hope of á going there since I had no money so he gave me the money for á admission.
5	When I received a letter telling me that my mother was very ill.
0	When I was forced to call the telephone company about a bill á concerning a disconnected phone belonging to my landlord.  The á bill was four months overdue and in the meanwhile he had been á using my phone, he seemed to have no intention of having his own á phone reconnected.
3	I bumped my dad's car in a lamp post.  He was not at home then, á neither was he home when I left for the campus.  I did not tell á him about the accident and I will never tell him.
4	I met a girlfriend again after not seeing her for several months. á  I saw her in a discotheque.  We do not like discotheques but we á went there because we knew we would meet there.
4	Being asked to go out by someone I care. 
0	I had an exam and I had it well prepared.  I did the first part á very well but did not know the second part.
3	My mother had sent me to buy a few things.  The change I brought á back was not right as I had given away some money to a friend á thinking that she would not notice it.  However, my mother told á me that the change was not correct.
0	I was accused of a misdemeanour, unjustly.
5	I felt very sad when I heard that a friend had committed suicide.
5	When I found out that my girlfriend would not be coming back to á UCB for one semester, but would be living in San Jose.
1	When I had to sleep in a bed at a hostel, which was full of dirt.
3	[ I felt guilt when I was not co-operative with my mother for my á exam.]
2	While I was pushing a court roller out of a ditch, I slipped and á fell down and the roller rolled back towards me -down slope-It is á a miracle that I still have my legs intact.
2	"When cleaning up a pile of junk under our house, a huge spider (a á \Jungle Spider\"") ran out near me. (I do not like even small á spiders)."""
0	"I \cooked\"" the engine in my father's car - it was actually his á fault because he hadn't fixed the temperature gauge or told me. á When I finally got home I was absolutely screamed at and the á anger I experienced was over the injustice of it all plus the á huge row which developed."""
2	I and my cousin went to a filmshow at night. We went without á making it known to my mother. While we were there at interval, I á came across my mother just close to where we sat.
1	When people/press analyze a particular newsworthy item (CAL á Football team) which I am a member and can only see the situation á in a bad light and always put the team down.
6	A friend giving me an expensive Christmas gift while I gave her a á cheap one.
6	Teacher suspected me stealing money.
4	Getting my accentance letter from CAL. 
1	I felt disgusted when I was not given money for lunch at school á by my father as a punishment for beating my little brother.
4	A very good friend of mine had been away for three months. When á we met again, we ran up to each other and embraced.
5	A close friend decided to stop with his study and to go back á home.
6	I feel shame every time I think of very dear friends of mine á abroad who were family to me for a year, and now 2 years later, I á have attempted, but have not actually gone through with á corresponding with them, to express my feelings and gratitude.
3	I allowed my little brother to clean the bathroom in his own way. á My mother came and saw the floor overflowed with water, slapped á my brother in the face and told him to go to bed immediately.
2	Left alone in the dark in a big building.
1	When a dog is left whining outside a shop.
6	When I forgot the birthday of my best friend and I innocently á came to visit her one week later.
2	We were riding in a friend's car.  He was driving very fast and á suddenly a another car crossed the road in front of us.  My á friend had to turn the car rapidly.
2	At school, I had acted against the will of the group, and the á next day they promised to take revenge on me.
2	I had been drinking with a pal and I later (1 o' clock) had a date  á with my fiancee.  We were going to a Spanish lesson and I was á afraid that she would smell that I had been drinking.
5	When my grandmother died.
4	My father stayed abroad for one year. He does not like to write á letters because he makes ortographic mistakes. I never had a good á relation to him. He wrote me a letter in which he said that he á loved me.
0	I came across a girl at the school bus-stop, I had seen her á several friends as she was a friend's friend.  However my friend á had never introduced me to her and when she got off the bus I á smiled at her but she did not respond pretending not to have seen á me.  Her arrogant behaviour made me sick and angry.
6	I went to bed with a girl and the next day she thought it was the á start of something serious and I just thought it was fun and I á told her I wasn't interested in starting a serious relationship.
4	Had a nice letter from my close friend.
4	Got a big fish in fishing.
2	A teacher wanted to instill a certain opinion and a certain á behaviour into myself, what I refused. I was afraid when I saw á him.
3	I prayed unfaithfully.
3	I was working as a secretary.  My boss was to go to give a á lecture, and wanted me to give him the exact address of the á place.
1	In the tram there was a fat, sickly looking woman in front of me á who was asking for directions in a thick voice.  When she got up to á go a disgusting smell of urine came from her.  I felt that I á would choke.
2	Damaged the tap in the residental Hall.
0	When my mother decided to clean out my room and throw out what á she thought was junk, without my knowing about it, so I returned á home to find half my stuff gone.
2	"I was camping in an old broken hut which had no lights.  I had á brought along a lamp which was not working very well.  The door á made strange sounds and I was sure that strange things were á happening.  The most terrifying bit was that there were many á wardrobes in the hut and everytime that I looked in the glass of á the wardrobe I felt that there were \objects\"" behind me.   The á whole night was spent in fear and restlessness."""
2	When I saw an accident, a woman was run over and she died on the á spot.
4	Every time, in the last few days, when my girlfriend told me that á she loves me.
4	When I received the first year results as the first year had á involved a lot of work and I was very pleased when I got the á results.
4	I felt happy when my mother borrowed me the car in order to let á me go out alone for the first time.
6	I choked on a cold drink in front of girls who were strangers.
1	[ No response.]
5	When my cousin passed away.
0	Someone messing up the room we share.
1	When I had exams a relative of ours, who lives in another city,á came to visit us and I felt disgusted at him.
6	I was very much ashamed after a friend beat me at school and I á was defeated.
0	When my father made my mother go through really terrible á situations, I felt furious, impotent, nervous, upset, ........
4	When I was admitted to the Chinese universiity.
1	One day, at an important place I met a group of girls and while á we were waiting for a bus these girls started smoking and á commanded me to smoke; I felt very disgusted. 
0	When I was house-hunting: Another person got a flat that I would á have liked, too, because he heaped a floot of words on the á letter.
5	Not getting a job.
3	It was when I discovered that the girl who I had proposed was a á friend's girlfriend.
5	Got a package from my parents, without even a small note á enclosed.
1	I was sitting in a station-hall and watching a lavatory á attendant. She was very dirty. She started to eat something out á of a dirty cup - it must have been something like lard. Then she á took some breadcrumbs out of the pockets of her apron and ate á them. I had to leave - I felt like vomitting. 
3	When I was driving my motorbike I went into a bend incautiously á and fell down. I was slightly hurt, the motorbike was slightly á damaged.
2	My fear appeared in the form of jealousy. I was afraid that my á girl-friend had fallen in love with another man, I was afraid to á lose her.
3	I was the reason behind the break-up of my friend's relationship á with his girlfriend.  She finished with him.
1	[ No response.]
6	I made a comment and it was interpreted completely differently á from what I had meant.  When I said it I realized how my mother á had understood it.
5	When I learnt that a boy I liked had been with a girl for three á years.
2	I received a letter from my college telling me that I would not á be allowed to sit for the exams because of my low attendance in á class and the bad experience in the terminal exams.
3	I felt guilty the other day because I took two pieces of bread á instead of one in the Cafeteria and some of the girls were short á of bread.
3	My younger sister wanted to take classes to learn a musical á instrument.  One Saturday morning my mother asked me to go with        á her for the registration.  I did not want to go  so I said that á there might be many bad people at the club.  As a resullt my á sister was scolded by my mother.
5	A friend breaking up with her boyfriend.
0	A friend told me it would be better for me not to be on familiar á terms with another friend, although, in my opinion he had no á reason to say such things. He only said so hoping that I á would search support from him (that, however, was not necessary).
6	It was in a group situation: suddenly it was my turn to say something,  but I felt that I was not able to express myself very well - I felt á ashamed and blushed.
1	I was on a walk with my child when I met a drunk woman.
1	When once again I drank too much and felt very rotten the morning á after.
4	A person with whom I had been on bad terms, gave me a present. We á became reconciled.
0	Last week, my organization summoned an executive meeting and one á of the executive member's pointed out a loop hole in the á committee's administration.  He could not suggest any á improvements, so I quarrelled with him.
0	I was playing in a football tournament and saw the rules openly á disregarded.
0	A friend doesn't let me study when I want to. She doesn't feel I á need to study and doesn't understand how important studying is to á me. I get very angry with her.
1	A situation where I ignored my beliefs and principles for a trip á of whimsy.
1	At my grandmother's detestable and selfish conduct towards my á elder sister, although her behavior was due to senility and lack of á understanding.
4	My being admitted to UNZA.
4	When I talk to my friends.
4	When I finally managed to get a specific sound from my guitar, á after baving tried for a long time.
4	At church camp when I accepted Christ into my life and so did my á friend.
1	When I heard about the disaster in Bophal (India).
4	I was coming home from an exam and I supposed that I had á passed it so I ran to a restaurant for a beer.
0	When I got home I found that the electrical supply had been á disconnected despite my having paid ZESCO the full bill a few  á days earlier.
6	When I met a friend of mine after several months.  
2	Being driven by friend who suddenly swerved and skidded a little. á It was night and on a long trip. We ended up on side of road.
1	When I think now about the way my father behaved when filing a á divorce.
5	When my grandmother passed away.
0	One day, when riding on a bicycle path, a car coming from the á opposite direction forced me to get off my bike although I had á the priority.
3	I had to take care of a neighbour's child. I did not look after á it all the time and the child fell down and was hurt. I felt á guilty.
4	Football was a very big deal at my high school, so I was joyous á when my school's team won the conference championship last year.
6	Failing university entrance examn.
4	Receiving close friends form abroad, whom I hadn't seen for á years.
4	When my favourite football team made a goal and was about to á win the Cup of England.
3	When I caused problems for somebody because he could not keep the á appointed time and this led to various consequences.
3	A friend of mine trusted me to back her in a decision she had á made.  But when the moment came I did not agree with her opinion.
6	[ No response.]
0	Misunderstood by a close friend for the wrong reason.
0	I felt much anger and perhaps I feel it till now, against my á girlfriend's sister who incited her to betray me just when I á needed her very much. She didn't think of anything, simply á passed over everything.
0	I feel anger when somebody forbids me to do something.
2	I had been watching a TV-program on paranormal phenomena.  At á night I could not fall off to sleep as I feared that humanoids á were on the move.
3	I failed to show up at an agreed date.
1	Knowing that I had to do the survey with him I felt very á reluctant.  Although I do not know him I feel disgusted by just á looking at him.  Thinking that the project lasted several days I á regreted having joined that project.
1	I was at home and I heard a loud sound of spitting outside the á door.  I thought that one of my family members would step on the spit á and bring the germs in the house.
5	I felt sad at having to leave my girlfriend after constant problems á and failed attempts at reconciliation.  My sadness was caused by á the irreversibility of the decision.
4	When I was offered a high position of trust, which I later á accepted.
3	I felt guilty when I lied to my parents.
2	My father has a chronic desease. In the autumn of 1983 he had a á very strong fit or seizure.
6	Once I spoke without thinking very much - it was quite a á nonsense.
5	When I had to come back from my village last Christmas.
5	A relative, whom I like very much, left for the United States.
6	When my dad caught me with a honey (girlfriend) in my bedroom.
6	When I had been angry at my friend without any reason.
1	I felt disgusted when somebody told me that my previous boyfriend á was her boyfriend.
1	[ The same as in anger.]
5	When I went home on holidays I found that my niece and nephew had á passed away I was very sad for the children were not even sick á before death but suddenly died.
1	Father said: If you are pregnant, you will have to procure á abortion. I was filled with disgust against my father.
1	While reading Olli Jalonen's new book, the distant, cold and á selfish relationships between people (in the book) made me feel á disgusted.
2	After the interview for admission to the university and before á the admission list was disclosed.  I was scared that I would not á be admitted and my fear lasted for quite some time.  My fear á disappeared only after the list was disclosed.
4	My joy knew no bounds when I was selected for a job even before á having finished my studies.
1	T.V features showing the violation of defenceless people.
1	We were at a hamburger bar and a man at a table nearby started á coughing and spitting into his plate.
2	When the car I was driving skidded on an icy road and landed in   á a ditch with one side against a rock.
5	When I heard that my friend had started drinking beer.
4	When my friend told me that he would come and meet me in a á moment.
4	When I was able to buy my new car, after lots of problems.
4	This is one feeling I never betray, but I must confess that the á last time I slighty felt happy was when I passed my M.A with a á high rank.  This was a few years ago when my friend told me about á the result.
3	When it was discovered that I had done the assignment at my work á place, this caused a lot of embarrassment for me.
3	When I had drunk too much and nearly got an alcohol poisoning.
6	Once I went home totally drunk and roused all our neighbours from á sleep.
1	My parents claimed me on their income tax after I had been out of á the house for two years receiving no financial support from them. á As result I had to work more during school because they were á expected by the FAO to contribute to my education when they á refuse to do so.
5	When I forgot the lyrics during a song contest.
5	For not having succeded in getting the job as a translator that I á wanted.
6	My P.T. instructor also works as a masseur. He wanted to massage á me, therefore I had to undress. For the first few times this was á not easy for me; I got gradually used to it.
0	When I was mistakenly accused of being a thief when I accidently á gave a fake coin at a counter.  I realized this before I handed á over the coin, but the man called me a thief and called a á witness.
1	Many times, when my father used to come home drunk and maltreated á physically me and my mother.
1	The behaviour of people spitting everywhere.
5	When realizing that my girlfriend and myself in fact had started á the process of breaking up.
2	When I dreamed that I was being attacked by a friend.
2	I was walking home one night (after getting a bus to my town) á when I was confronted by a group of males (about 6), they would á not let me pass - they made comments etc. - I crossed the road á and hurried home.
0	I made an appointment with a friend to drink coffee togehter. á However, for the third time in that week she arrived an hour too á late.
2	When I nearly caused a traffic accident with my car.
4	When I got the first compound through column.
1	A boyfriend with whom I split up with came over to a friend's á house where I was visiting with a male friend. In a confrontation á in another room he tried to find out if I was aroused by my á friend by feeling my parts.
3	I had to tell a collegue the time for an appointment with another á collegue. I told her the wrong time - it was obviously my fault.
6	I greeted and embraced the wrong person thinking that it was my á friend.
0	"Being subject to unfair treatment in a working group, someone á \bending the rules\"" was protected by the boss. This resulted in á more work for the others."""
6	A friend of mine was shouting at me in a group of juniors.
0	We were just about to go into the Exam room and I didn't see all á my writing materials plus the identification card from the place á where I left them.
1	The disgust I feel towards a certain person.
4	I was travelling in the South of Brasil, near the end of the á year. I was well settled with 3 friends. At the evening of 31 M., á somebody, also with us, took from his purse pints of all colours, á and the 4 of us, and other friends, that were at the same beach, á painted each other and we went to the beach with champagne.
4	A quarrel was followed by the decision of leaving a person close á to me. Several days later my regret was great. I was beside á myself. Quite unexpectedly he came and the conflict was calmly á solved. I was glad at the possibility to be with him.
6	I felt ashamed when in a certain occasion I had to read a text á and didn't stop stuttering.
6	I was at the University dining room, alone, and at a table next á to mine thre were several professors.  One of them asked me to á join them.  I refused but she insisted.  All the others started á looking at me and I had to move to their table.
0	When an argument with a friend of mine over our behaviour towards á another friend turned into a quarrel.   I lost my temper and nearly á knocked him out.
5	When I read a lot and did not remember anything.
4	When I entered at the University.
2	The time I was threatened with expulsion from secondary school (form á four).
5	"Alone I am coming back home in the night after the serial á \explanation\""."""
1	When a friend of mine keeps telling me morbid things that á happened to his dog.
6	Not being able to have a party at home with friends.
0	My roommate leaving my drawers in a mess after plowing thourgh á them looking for something.
2	I am thinking about death, the eternal of it, the unknown, the á sense of being here. Often, laying in bed in the dark and quiet, á the fear makes me feel dizzy.
4	I was very glad when I learned I was a student already. I heard á about it over the phone, I didn't believe it at first.
2	When I was told by the doctor, after many months of coughing, á that I had tuberculosis.
4	Yesterday my friend gave me a gift and had dinner with me.
2	The day before the university results came out I was both excited á and scared.  If I failed I did not know what I would do as I did á not want to work, my family was ambivalent.
6	When I tried to steal a book from the bookshop and was caught.
5	My father suddenly fell ill. He stayed for 3 months in the á hospital: the last month on intensive care of the Academic á Hospital, then he died.
1	When I patronized a certain tavern which had prostitutes, it was á almost a brothel.
2	Every time I see a spider or a snake.
5	The second time I went to the entrance exam to V.S.P. and á didn't get approved.
6	I had a test in the class and I had not adequately prepared á myself. I didn't fare so well on the exam and I felt bad about á it.
1	When my best friend started getting involved in my private á affairs.
1	In my village there was this tax collector who used to cheat á people and collected more than was wanted, the surplus was for á his family and himself.
5	I experienced this emotion when my friend committed suicide after á we had spent the afternoon playing and discussing life and it's á problems.
3	When as a 7 year old, I stole money from my mother.
4	I remember my religious experience.  During  a gospel camp, a few á friends of mine decided to believe in God.  The joy that I felt á at that time was more than words can express.  I blessed them and á praised God in my heart.
4	I felt vvery happy when I was accepted at UNZA for my studies.  á I had not expected this as I had been ill during the exams.
5	The day I left my first girlfriend.
0	I can't remember being truly angry. Usually it's just á disappointment that I feel. One situation would be with my á brother. He and I used to be close but now he seems to be á avoiding me.
3	When I saw a program on Ethiopia on T.V, a fews hours earlier I á had thrown away some clothes and food.
2	I caught a huge eel on a fishing line which I had pulled into the á boat. I cut the line and threw the whole lot back into the water. á Later that day and about ten miles away I went swimming and á someone made the comment wondering how far eels could swim, I á abruptly ended swimming for fear at an unseen eel for a few days á until we had left the district.
2	Fear came towards the end of May when the P.T.S. results were out á after hearing the failure of my fellow three friends.
5	When a class-mate died.
5	When the guy I was in love with told me that he had met someone á else and that we would not meet again for a year.  Although we á did not have a steady relatioship, we were having an affair.
6	The first time that I had to go up on the stage to give a speech.
0	A few months ago when I was teaching, I suddenly became very á angry at the children and slapped some of them.
5	When my nephew was taken to hospital with meningitis and we did á not know what would happen.
2	I was physically assaulted and sexually abused about a year ago. á Just the feeling that I might not get away intact, or even alive, á produced fear.
2	When I was about six years old, I mistook a cat for a leopard      á when it entered my room at night.
2	I lived in a student-house, where you shared the lavatory and á shower with a fellow student. the shower cubicle formed the á connection between both appartments. My neighbour very often was á drunk and aggressive. One night, I was afraid that he would enter á my room.
5	Losing my girlfriend who made an end to our relationship. By this á I lost an important source of support, certainty and joyful á moments. I cried very intensly when that happened.
3	After a courtship of three months I made an end to it. The boy á was very sad about this.
3	"One of my friends came to know through some other friends that I   á had applied for some course in an institute.  He asked me \why á did not you tell me, I would also have applied.\""  At that I felt á guilty."""
3	Many years back I quarrelled with my younger brother for a small á reason.  I used a pole to beat him and nearly broke his arm.  He á recovered after a treatment which lasted several months.  After á this our relationship was worse and he would not listen to me.
2	I was driving and a deer suddenly appeared in front of the á car when there was a lot of traffic behind me.
1	When a person saw that I was accused of something I had not done á and did not do anything to defend me.
4	When I get something that seemed very hard like getting a job, a á boyfriend, etc. A specific sutuations, was when I started to date á a boy whom I liked for a long time.
3	It is some years ago when my mother found me stealing relish in á the pot. It was fresh fish which was very appetising.
3	I felt guilty of having suspected my room-mate of stealing the á money last term.
2	When I was to sit for my first entrance exam. I had fear of a á possible failure.
3	During a ski tour with a friend, we two had drunk too much. When á we went down the slope on ski, I lost my friend who had lost his á way. I thought that something must have happened to him (he á finally arrived but after a very long time).
1	When a boy put a handful of cooked potatoes down my dress and á there was no water to clean up.
2	I was inside the car with my husband and we were assaulted with a á gun at 10 o'clock in the evening.
3	I had known the girl for a few months when I proposed to her and this á put an end to our friendship, as from then on we started á withdrawing from each other.  I liked her very much.
2	I felt fear when once I was asleep and dreamed that I was dying á asfixiated by a cardiac attack, I was afraid and woke up á desperate. Altough I wasn't afraid of death I was afraid.
6	People impolite with me because I did not get a good report.
4	When I recently got a very positive answer from a clinic telling á me that they would willingly assist and collect data for me for a á clinical pilot study.
0	"After seeing an \uncertain\"" child work on a model for several á hours, I watched a \""bully\"" of the same age destroy it, telling á the child that it was worthless."""
5	My academic result was poor and I had to repeat the second year.  á I felt sad about the coming several years.
0	At an unjust, or to be more precise, at a bureaucratic treatment á of one's personality.
6	I was learning judo and my instructor wanted me to assist him in á teaching girls judo at a suburban college.  I was just a beginer, á and he made me a green belt so that I would be able to command á respect.  This was against my principles, and yet I allowed myself á to listen to him.  I gave it up soon after, however I felt very á ashamed at not sticking to my principles and at not having put my á foot down earlier.
2	When two drug addicts tried to take away my money.
0	My mother had for some time been trying to separate me from a á good friend who, she thought, was not good company for me.  á Finally, at breakfast one day, we had an argument and I tried to á defend my friend.
4	When in an economic crisis I got an unexpected sum of money.
5	When another person's mother died.
3	During 7th grade our class mobbed a famale teacher so badly that á she had a breackdown and was hospitalized.
1	A sister broke a cup and when mother asked I was reported to have á been responsible.
3	When I deliberately engineered a situation to cause tension á between friends so as to bolster the impression one of them had á of me !
1	When I found a bristle in the liver paste tube.
1	I was disgusted from a quarrel between two married people, in á which the children were involved as accusers of one of the á parents.
3	When my uncle found me having sexual intercourse with a distant á relative of mine in the sitting room, on the couch.  I failed to á stop and get up, I carried on.
5	It was the time I went home for my holidays only to find that my á sister had passed away.  The news had been hidden from me, so á that I could take my exams.
3	When I was very young, one day, I kicked my grandmother and á caused her an injury which took a long time to heal.
1	In May somebody blamed me that I made him to be caught while á peeping during the Nursing Test which made me feel disgusted.
0	My partner without discussing with me the situation decided it á was time for us to have a break and went ahead and arranged his á own life for the next 6-12 months, then told me the day before it á was about to happen having been tolerant and friendly for the á preceding week.
3	When I failed an exam I thought I could pass easily.
1	Students on campus were unnecessarily creating trouble just to á heckle the authorities - not to achieve something concrete, but á to further their own interest.
5	My father resigned from work, and soon after this his elder brother á died.  The next day my granny died (my mother's mother).  My dad á remains the only living member of his family.
0	About a month ago the Regional Council refused to pay my wife the á due maternity benefit, because of bureaucratic reasons.
0	Being insulted in public.
2	I thought that I would be scolded for a comment I had made, which á I should not have made.
4	Finally being asked by someone to a banquet.
5	When my father passed away in 1978.  I was left alone with my á mother who was very sick so I had to go and live with my aunt, who á is very short tempered, till my mother was discharged from the á hospital.
0	South Korea winning more gold medals in the Asian Olympic (more á than China).
3	When I don't justify the confidence of people that I respect.
5	I saw a lot of starving people in a T.V news report.
1	When a very dirty class-mate farted in my  presence.  There was a á terrible smell.
0	I had gone home for a week-end and when I came back I found that á my clothes and my bedding had been stolen.
2	Some friends and I were crossing a street when one of my friends á was seized by a car and thrown aside. I had seen the car coming á in our direction but I did not have enough time to react and á prevent the accident.
3	When I behaved improperly - fought in a public place.  á Afterwards, I felt guilty about my conduct.
1	A bad smelling cucumber.
5	Two years ago my best friend died in an accident, just a day á before my birthray.  We were very close to each other and I felt á very sad at loosing a close friend.
0	While having a discussion with my mother, I realized that she á does not for a moment doubt the justification of her making the á decisions concerning my life.
0	I had stolen a bottle of rum from a person who knows me well. He á threatened to call the police if I did not pay 500 Shillings.
4	A party with no worries (i.e. no tests homework etc.) many á friends were present and good music.
1	Reading literature on AIDS/homosexuality.
3	After being told that an ex-boyfriend had been hurt by my wearing á something he had given me when I was with another guy. I was á unaware of my actions really, as I had not considered the fact á that he had given it to me, and might see me. I still respected á his opinions of me.
1	The behaviour of a fellow towards me and some others in the army á was really mean.  I detested this.
4	Some time ago I was present at the wedding party of two close á friends of mine.
6	Not collecting homeworks in time to give the teacher.
5	When I noticed obvious marks of old age (in a negative sense) on á a close relative of mine.
3	When I did something wrong in the past and denied having done it á when asked about it later.
3	Breaking the left hand indicator box by moving too close to á structure.
6	I was given the task to learn a page of music text for a small á part. But I had forgotten all about it and I felt quite awkward á when I had to show what I had prepared.
3	Doing something wrong at home, and then letting my (normally) á more rampant brother take the blame.
0	I remember that when I was in school I saw a case of partiality - á one of the teachers gave private coaching classes to some girls á and she would give these girls extra attention in class and would á ignore the others.
0	Someone told me that I was chosen for English lectures because á the class leader is going out with me (not true).
6	I had to prepare a report but I couldn't write it. I read from a á book off-hand, I was quite uneasy and I felt I didn't manage.
2	When I got to know that the friend I am closest to got engaged, á and she was going away.  I was overjoyed for her, but also felt á frightened as I was very emotionally dependent on her.  I did not á know what I would do without her.
1	I went to a restaurant with my boyfriend for dinner. There we saw á a couple. the man of the couple was a negro and he hadn't manners á for eat.
6	I lost my temper at my mother while she was teaching me.  I felt á ashamed and sorry at having hurt my loving mother.
3	Our Headmaster came to our hostel. The lights were off but there á was a lot of noise. We shouted at him when he knocked at our á door. We later saw that it was the Headmaster.
5	I felt sad and depressed when I heard that our cat had died.
6	I was ashamed at being the only one to have got a C+ in ED120 á assignment.
3	When I decided to take a week s holiday without consulting the á family first.
0	I felt unfairly treated at an airport, being told to use a á different counter (for domestic traffic only).
5	My father dying.
2	When someone close to me is travelling by car and is delayed.
1	I was stopped from entering a party while I was at School but I á had an Invitation card with me. This was done because they said I á was too young to join elderly people.
5	A close friend of the family died.
6	After a big fight with my parents.
0	When my boyfriend went away for a month long holiday without me.
6	Felt ashamed when in a group conversation and could not á understand words or comprehend the topic of discussion.
1	When, for example, someone is calumnating.
5	Recent break-up with my girlfriend. We had been together for over á a year. I was overseas and discovered over the phone (while I was á at work).
4	During my Summer vacations I planned a carnival for the community á youth center with a few other volunteers.  I was the head of the á organizors and we spent over a month planning it.  During this á period we got to know and understood each other.  We á discovered each others potential and we planned many interesting á things for the carnival.  The day of the carnival everything was á bright, the programmes went well and the attendants enjoyed it.  á I felt extremely excited about it.
5	Leaving high school.
4	I felt joy when my boyfriend proposed to me in marriage.
0	We are repainting rooms in my house. My mother started to enact á plans to paint my room without consulting me.
3	When I beat up a first year student at my secondary school in á my capacity as the deputy head boy.  He had woken up late in the  á morning for manual work.
4	When I opened my TE Score envelope, and saw I got into á Physiotherapy.
0	In the student's union there was someone who took the photocopies á of two large volumes.  I asked him to let me take a few, he refused á it for an acceptable reason. 
4	Family member survived an operation.
3	When I was caught stealing mangoes in a certain compound.
6	My father who is very quiet discovered I was going out with a á coloured boy. He called me names and was really upset.
2	English papers are due on Friday. They are returned on Tuesday. á This Tuesday I was afraid to go to class and get my paper because á I knew it was bad.
2	When I heard that there is teasing and bulling at Secondary á School.
4	My 3 children - each top his class in the final exams 1984.
1	At the underground station, a drunkard came to speak to me.  He á tried to ask me something but I did not answer so he began to á speak about me with his companion.  I detested this dirty á growling man.
4	Hear my name on the list attending the English lectures.
4	Naturally when I got myself discharged this was my second á birthday.
3	Passing by a good friend's home without coming in to visit him.
2	Thinking about death when walking alone at night.
2	I was skiing alone and the mountain became covered with mist and á I thought I was lost and was going to panic.
5	When I was a Sr. in HS. one of the class counselors died of á hepatitis. She was very sensitive. She knew my shyness and drew á me out to improve myself image. I missed her funeral - so I could á not publically grieve. My parents didn't understand.
3	When I insulted my young sister for a very little misconduct of á putting on my shoes. She wrote me an apology letter and the á message she included made me feel guilty.
4	"I felt glad to live again when I went to a meeting about the á \Knowledge\"". There are 4 techniques of meditation that connect á you with the essence of the human being."""
6	My father was a member of the public Alcohol and Drugs Board, á when I was picked up by the police for being drunk in a public á place.
4	When I passed the TOEFEL with very good marks.
3	The time that I had to put my dog to sleep.
5	My sister marrying a bad man. He is cruel to her.
2	When we forced a friend to chew a poisonous herb in primary á school.  His tongue was swollen and he told his mother about it.  á The mother reported it to the headmaster who threatened to expel á us.
0	When a close friend failed to live up to the expectations I had á of him - thereby causing pain to his spouse. I believe that my á anger was probably a reaction of fear that I wouldn't be able to á live up to my own expectations.
0	One of my colleagues accused me of having stolen his iron and I á was sure that I had done no such thing.
0	When I found out that my good friend and roommate did not pay the á phone bill and electric bill like he promised and let me down.
4	I was in ILHA GRANDE with a wonderful sun, with wonderful people, á with a wonderful sea, with a wonderful boy.
5	My mother's death.
6	When I asked my classmate to teach me to do my homework, he asked á me to study by myself first but I did not do it.  When he asked me á  if I had studied, I felt very ashamed. 
0	When my room-mate locked me out deliberately, before an exam due á at 1400 hours.
0	During a trivial (friendly) discussion, one of the participants á made an intervention which made me feel uncomfortable.
3	A girl whom I hadn't seen for a period of time told me that she á had been pregnant and had an abortion - I was the father.
4	When it appeared that I was not pregnant when I was several weeks á overtime.
0	When they denied a job to a person that I propsed giving political á reasons that has nothing to do directly with the professional á level.
4	I felt joy when my two twin sisters were born.
3	An item which belonged to a friend of mine was missing.  I had á taken it earlier and I thought that I had returnrd it so when he á asked me for it I stubbornly refused having it.  Later when I á looked for it, I found it in my room.
0	Sometimes when I go to work my crazy boss (a hyper Jewish lawyer) á insists I do things his way (filing, typing, etc.). He sometimes á blames me for things I didn't do, and I can't yell back at him.
4	I passed my MCE Examination. at first I was worried but when I á heard my name I had joy in my heart and I arranged for a trip to á attend a wedding ceremony.
3	Falling in love with a close friend.
6	My aunt phoned me to ask me why I had refused the her invitation á to dinner at her home on the New Year's Eve.
0	A whole crowd of us went to a folklore festival. The instructor á of the cast where my boyfriend played was traveling with us. We á decided to catch the train that leaved early in the morning á because we had business on the following day. The instructor á tried to get the upper hand and made us catch the train in spite á of everything, all the time he made me angry.
6	When I went to see the doctor and had to take my clothes off so á that he could examine me.
3	Not applicable to myself.
1	"Prolonged \niggling\"" of friend on a single theme which I á considered of no consequence."""
5	My dog died of a cerebral tumor.
5	My girlfriend gave me the mitten (left me).
6	When my darling found me walking hand in hand with another girl á whom I loved also. 
4	After going through much shame, I became a Christian and á something new happened in my heart.  Joy that overflows was á manifest in me.
1	I felt disgust about all my friends. After having done a great á effort to organize an evening together, and didn't work out, they á put the blame on me. After this, I feel disgust towards those that á blame me.
5	In May 18th, 1984 my boyfriend went to the U.S.A. In December I á was told he passed away. He had cancer of the Oesophagus.
0	In form three we were taking our mock exams and someone else (a á friend) was making noise when the examinateur picked on me and á said that he would tear up my answer sheet.  I got very angry á with the girls involved.
4	You told me psychology can help people to be happier.
2	After some time of work I was transferred to another place and in á an other quite harder job.
3	When my little brother asked me to play with him, I told him that á I had no time and that I would play with him the next day. á However, the next day I said the same thing.
1	My elder sister forced me to do a few things which I did not like á to do.
2	When I was going home for my holiday, I almost drowned in the á Zambezi river.
0	They had returned much less of my taxes than I had expected.
1	When I take a look into a slaughter-house and when listening to á stories about torturing people or animals.
5	After my father's death.
1	When I had to dissect a live mouse at school.
4	When I was back home after a long time, meeting beloved people á and close friends.
3	[ I speak harshly to my parents though they only mean my own á good.]
0	An argument among friends in which my opinions on the way to á spend spare time were disapproved.
1	I came across a group of people with the same basic ideas/beliefs á who were all fighting and going against what they would say was á good.
6	When a certain girl I believed to be my life partner refused an á engagement.
1	A close friend took part in a racist violent action.
5	I was very sad when I heard about the death of my teacher who á taught me in Standard 8.
6	I travelled on a bus and I forgot to punch the ticket. A ticket á collector came in and I had to pay the fine. I did it with a feeling á of shame.
3	When I was about 17 years old and I stole some pens from a á stationery store because I didn't have enough money.
6	My guilty behaviour was found out by others.
4	Unexpectedly I met some persons who I like very much. á Spontaneously they invited me and integrated me within their á group, although it was late in the evening.
2	I felt fear some months ago of losing the person whom I loved á when she said to me that she didn't love me.
0	When I miss the train and I am late, and I have to wait half an á hour for the next one.
1	The day I went to eat dinner in the dinning hall and found a á dead fly in my gravy.
0	When my sister took something that belonged to me without my á permission.
6	Last Summer I went camping with some C.U students.  As I was á working then, I had to leave the second night (some of them had á joined us the first night).  Next morning, 6 o'clock, a female á classmate knocked on our door and tried to wake us up.  I was not á fully conscious and I said something which I should not have.  I á realized the trouble I had made and wanted to hide.  Later I á said sorry to her and the matter came to an end.
1	When I was getting up, I found a live cockroach in my bedroom.
3	Once, when I arrived home very late, my parents had an argument á because of this; my mother wanted to stand up for me.
3	It was when I injured a friend accidentally with a stone. It made á a cut on the cheeks which resulted in suturing.
1	I am disgusted with liers, hypocrites, slanderers, flunkeys.
2	I was travelling back home by boat with two friends of mine after á a lovely holiday trip.  The night and the sea were dark, and the á wind was blowing.  I feared that death was there on the boat, I á somehow felt sure about it.  I feared being left alone.
5	I had a schoolmate who went to the hospital as her brain was á bleeding.  She fell unconscious for three days and when I went á to see her I saw the miserable state the family was in.  Moreover á I could not do nothing for her.  I was very sad.  Finally, she á died.
2	I was afraid when my dog ran out through a crack in the fence á when  a train was coming.
0	A shop-assistant behaved rather roughly with me though she hadn't á the slightest grounds for it.
4	When my brother bought me a nice pair of shoes from South Africa.
0	I had been searching for housing for Fall at UCB and I was á finally offered a place - then an ordeal followed, first I á accepted then refused - related to my parents judgment (they're á paying for me). Turns out that I was so upset at what my Dad said á to me that I hung up on him. He called back and threatened to cut á me off financially and emotionally.
4	The day I got married was the happiest day of my life.  Both of á us felt that we were right for each other in every way and we had á no doubts about our compatibility right from the day we got á engaged.
3	Make a mistake, offended my friend.
4	I got a good reaction from my tutor and tutorial group for a á presentation I'd given that I was very worried about.
4	I had not studied very much for my final examination at school, á so I had to take an additional examination in French. The oral á examination was not very hard for me - the more I was glad when I á heard that I had passed it.
0	When you kill yourself with work and see the number of slakers á wandering around, doing nothing.
4	I liked to see off my aunt (from Zaire) to the airport. That á appeared to be impossible because I had to go to school. For long á time I wasn't sure if I could accompany her. Two days before the á departure they told me I was allowed to miss school.
5	When another fellow worker decided to leave the company. We had á been very close and we would not be able to work with eachother á any longer.
2	During a demonstration I climbed up the closed central door of a á bus.  When the bus stopped I had to go back to the same place, á afraid that the police would see me.   
3	Having been angry and unpleasant towards my parents.
6	I felt this when I was copying homework for one of my classes.
6	On the way back from a Summer spent in Sweden, I drunk with a man á in the train.  I had drunk so much that when I got home I fell á asleep in the entrance hall.  I have never drunk that much, á neither before nor after that incident.  I was ashamed because my á mother and my sister had to see me in that state and my father á had to carry me to bed.
4	It was August 30th when I heard on the radio that I passed my á M.C.E. exams and I was really happy and joyous because of the á event.
3	I had not written to, or called my grandmother, who was lonely, á for a long time.  My mother asked me to call her on her behalf á and when I did so, my grandmother was delighted and she told me á that she had been waiting for some news from us.
4	The computer at school had left out my name along with four á others and I had no rights for one year.  So I was happy to find á my name on the medical schhol list.
0	My best friend at school told lies about me to a boy I was seeing á and went out with him herself.
6	Insulted by a woman in public.
1	Someone being arrogant to me.
4	My girlfriend sent me a letter with a shiny picture in it.
5	The loss of a close relative who was ill with cancer.
5	When I realized that I could not communicate properly with my á closest friend.
5	When my father died.
3	When I think that I have been too stict or narrow minded towards á my students.
0	The day the results of the Chinese university was announced I á should have been very happy; however my grandmother, because of  á her prejudice and misunderstanding, started a  quarrel with my á mother.  She expected me to take her side and she deliberately á talked of my mother's wrong doings.  I was very angry because - á one my grandmother was not being reasonable and two because it á should have been a happy day and three we had moved into a new á house that day.
5	Not doing well in an examn.
6	After the car accident in GUILT.
6	My first real experience with a boy. We were alone. I was quite á young and pretty naive and he was pretty crude and real, sort of, á macho. It was dark, at night during the summer and we were á talking.
2	I was with my boyfriend forgetting that I had left the house á unlocked. Unfortunatly a thief came and stole all the kitchen á utensils. Thereafter I was afraid of the consequences.
1	When I made love with someone who I didn't really love. Sometimes á I even considered him unlikable.
3	When I noticed that my little sister was sulking, because I could á not meet her because of a misunderstanding.
4	This happened when I was selected to go to Secondary school to á start Form I in October 1980.
3	I felt guilt when my friends were punished to slash grass at the á gound because of making noise in class. I was in the group of á noise-makers but I denied having done any noise.
0	When I encountered not only with my father's lack of á understanding but also with his unwillingness to understand me as á a parent, as far as things for which I (not he) have proves to be á right are concerned.
6	In primary school I once faltered while answering a question and á the others started laughing.
4	Several days after my final examination at school, I was sitting á in an airplane on my way to Greece. I enjoyed that moment very á much.
4	When I learnt that I had been accepted at UNZA.
0	On the way home from Marstrand I was driving behind my father's á car.  Another car tried to push in front of my father and he was á forced to swerve and he thus collided the car with a pillar.  The á other car drove off without even seeing what had happened.
1	I hate hypocrisy. My friend (girl) tried to intrude into my á affairs with my future husband. After that she behaved as if á nothing had happened.
3	I felt guilty after getting really angry with a friend and having á an argument. I was being stubborn and proud, and selfish, because á my friend let me down, through no fault of her own.
3	When we were playing, I hurt my little sister, but towards my á mother I did not admit that it was my fault.
5	About two years ago my girlfriend suggested that we separate.  á This really gave me a shock as I had never thought that she would á say such things.  The reason she gave me was that we were not á suited for each other.
5	[ No response.]
1	When one of my parents verbally, personally abused the other.
6	Failing an examn.
2	Sitting alone in a quiet room, concetrating on things happening á around you. Thoughts come into my mind which make me afraid.
4	On holiday, seeing the lanscape in Gerona.
4	When Wayne and Sue (close friends) were announced our guardians á at ther wedding.
0	When a friend tried to back bite me on false grounds.  This made á me wonder if he was a really a good friend.
0	I had an appointment downtown, and the person in question was á half an hour late.
2	Whhen the front tyre of the car burst.
1	When I felt the smell of industries that pollute.
3	I quarreled with my boy-friend. He said it was unfair that I á always started crying so that he had to give in.
6	Once my presentation was the worst among my classmates as I had á not prepared it well and had not seen it as important.  My á presentation was so confused that it clearly showed my poor á preparation.
4	When I was told that I was selected to attend Medical Assistant á Training.
4	[ Any situation in everyday life has this emotional sense, in á class, in the street, at home, at the table..........]
2	First time in anatomy.
5	I lost a close friend.
6	When I promise to do something but I don't fulfill it.
3	I hapened to overhear something which I was not meant to hear.
2	When I heard that my father had found a letter from my boyfriend á and he was calling me to talk about it.
4	My sister in law was about to have a child, and there were some á problems.  They had to do a Caesarean.  After a while, everything  á was all right.
4	"I was in a dancing-tavern and the atmosphere was one of waiting á for the end of the world.  Suddenly people began dancing wildly, á inspired by the band.  An unbelievable experience : wonderful á that even Finns sometimes flare up and forget to think \what á others are thinking of me\"".  It was delightful to dance to one's á heart content."""
3	I had an appointment with a friend. I promised him to meet with á him, but at last I did not without having informed him.
2	A man was yelling outside my window at 3.00 am, yelling threats, á though not to me.
6	After taking a difficult midterm for one of my classes, I felt á shame for not studying as much as I should have. I was ashamed of á the results of the midterm.
0	When my father talks about our relatives and favours them, I feel á angry.
0	Having my personal objects rearranged by someone else without my á consent and having it arranged to their taste. Then trying to á find a particular object they rearranged for an hour or more.
4	When I was informed that a short story I had written had been á accepted for publication.
6	My mother had just been teaching me how to crochet, which is á thought highly improper for a boy in a town.  Just when we á finished, a neighbour walked in.
6	[ No response.]
1	I saw some images of a decapitation in a horror film.
2	One evening, while going to meet a friend of mine, I had to cross á a meadow by a dark road.  There were bushes on the other side of á the road.  The weather was damp and a bit foggy.  I heard steps á behind me and kept speeding up my steps all the time.
6	[ No response.]
6	[ No response.]
3	I behaved in a nasty manner towards a friend, I said things which á I could have said in a more friendly way. After that I felt á guilty.
2	I was visiting my parents in law when the house was invaded by á three strange men, and they committed an armed assault.
5	My partner left me after we had been together for a long time.
2	I returned home late from a party last night and I felt afraid á trying to anticipate the reaction of my father.
4	When I look at people around and know that people who are stupid á look stupid.
2	I have been afraid several times. What marked me was that I á almost didn't enter University.
4	When I got the positive result of my examination to achieve the á Bachelor Degree in Plychology.
2	"I turned the knob of my granny's two band radio and did not hear á any broadcast,  \ What ! Have I broken the knob ? How much does á it cost ? What if the spare part is not available ? \""  --I did á not know how to tune a radio."""
1	When I saw a man who hadn't the lower .... in a car á exhibition. He was passing a handkerchief from inside to outside á of his mouth.
1	When I vomitted a lump of blood.
6	A day I was with my boyfriend and a couple of friends in a bar, á and he said something that I didn't like (I don't remember what). á Without thinking I slept him in his back, getting ashamed and á sorry just after.
0	I had an accident with damage to the car body.
4	When high level results were declared, I found my candidature á number.  I was very happy as I had not expected it.  As I had been  á injured before the examination and I had performed poorly.
5	[ Laziness makes one sad.]
6	Stealing from my mother's purse when I was a little boy.
0	I wanted to go to Bhopal for relief work (gas tragedy).  My boss á simply refused to let me go, I was so angry that the only thought á that came to my mind was to quit the job.
3	Peeping.
3	Leaving a friend of mine alone at a dance - I felt I should have á kept her company.
2	On the scenic railway at the fairground.
6	Making bloopers: e.g. telling something negative about a certain á person, while that person is standing besides you and hears á everything.
4	When the lady who is now my wife accepted my proposal to be my á lover and future wife.
2	Mugged while on holiday in the U.S.A.
3	Shouting at my parents because I was angry about something else.
2	When I was called for an Interview at Kamuzu College of Nursing.
3	My son drank four pills of diazepam every two hours instead of á amidophen.
2	When my mother was angry with me over my friends and boyfriend.
1	In Ward 1A was an epileptic patient who was burnt the whole body á and was stinking very much such that the whole ward was affected. á Few people could come near him.
4	I made the college entrance examinations for P.U.C. It was what I á wanted more. When the first list came out I got frustrated. I á wasn't in. When the second list came out without hopes I started á to read the newspaper and my name was thre. I was in the bus and á felt like crying so that everybody could hear me. The cry was hold, á and 1982 became forever a mask in my life.
2	I was in about Grade 7, I came home from school one day and was told á that my mother had skin cancer and would have to go to the hospital á straight away.
6	Confession to my parents about my involvement in a moped theft.
4	I was happy when at difficult times I could find support in my á friend and my fiancT, I was happy because of their spiritual and á moral help which gave me new power to struggle. I was happy then, á I felt it in my soul.
1	A story I heard recently about a baby dying after sexual á abuse.
2	Diagnosis that I have a stomache ulcer.
3	When I spoke ill of a fellow worker in the absence of this á person.
4	When I could study at university.
4	Having received an offer to do post-graduate work.
2	Once I was very frightened at night as I had a very fearful and á terrifying dream, I could not go back to sleep for a long time.
2	I was looking after my father's sheen in the forest. One day á while playing with friends from neighbouring villages the flock á escaped me and went into a far place. It became dark and I was á afraid of father. I went home and hid myself.
3	I was sitting in a restaurant with friends and I knew that in the á meantime my girl-friend must have come to my flat and found the á door closed.
5	My best friend was not chosen for the English lectures.
1	I felt this situation when a certain woman from a close village á shouted at my mother because she didn't get what she wanted, she á wanted some salt to put in her relish.
5	"When I finished a relation after four years, leading to much á sorrow for the other one and myself (\although it was the best á solution\"")."""
6	My failure to provide the appropriate emotional/spiritual level á to a sexual relationship that had a large physical content. Born á out of inconsistency with my personal beliefs and value shame at á largely using this sexual partner.
6	I was taking a shower in a cubicle in France. Then I discovered á that a few children were loking at me from the adjacent cubicle.
4	The day I was happiest was the day when I received a phone call á from Eve's Weekly to inform me that I had won the first prize of á the All India Essay competition.  I had won this prize when I was á an under-graduate when even post graduates had participated.  I á had been judged by eminent judges and political scientists.
5	When my mother went through an operation, it was not very serious á but I was sad and could not sleep before the operation.
3	To force someone to do something that suits me.
5	"Watching \11 am\"". They had a programme on the starving refugees. á Their plight was a source of sadness for me."""
0	When I was deputy manager during the Summer, certain deputies á took liberties, more than what was normal.
6	I was saying bad things about a man I had never seen.  I was á with a friend and did not know that she was related to this man.  á My friend did not tell me about it and I discovered this myself.
6	I was with a group of people and everybody told me to do or say á something.  It was a confusing, strong and traumatic situation á for me.
4	When I got a small present form a person I like very much.
2	My father was away from home and he did not come back when he was á expected, he came back several hours later than expected.
2	I was spending my summer holidays in a village.  My friend and I á were coming back from a discotheque at night and we heard a noise á from an alley.  We were very scared and we got into my friend's house. á  A moment later, an unknown car picked up a person from this á alley.
1	I was forced to go to a party with someone I didn't love and he á was telling people that I was his girlfriend.
4	During the exam period I studied in the library alone.  A close   á friend of mine, who is also a classmate, told me that my á application for a Japanese inter-cultural exchange programme had á been accepted.  I was not very sure as I did not know that the á list had been declared.  I ran to the board and saw that I was á really included in the list.  I was so excited that I smiled all á day long.  When I met my classmates and friends I told them the á good news.  I was so happy that I could not concentrate on my á studies. á 
2	"Before Uni started, I had to leave home and take up residence in á Brisbane (the \big smoke\"") leaving home, my family, and moving to á such a big place was quite intimidating at first, and I was á anxious about it."""
4	Meeting a loved man.
3	I kicked the chair in the classroom to express my anger.
0	The comrade staying next doors insulted me for what he called  á the misuse of his iron.  He called me stupid, self centered etc.  á I wanted to punch him but instead went for a walk to the mining á school to cool off.
0	During the short period of my unemployment about six years back.
1	Saw Chinese people flattering foreigners.
5	I was once nominated as an Officer Cadet in the Armed Forces and á my name was cancelled on the list of nominees of those who were á sent to Kenya for Training.
5	On rising. No apparent reason.
4	On my 18th birthday I passed the driving-test. I was glad because á I had had to study very much, because I had been lucky and á because - as a proof that it was really difficult - not everybody á had passed the test.
6	When I refused to fetch water for my aunty while she was busy.
0	The fact that I hadn't been informed about something and I had the á greatest trust in this person.
5	I had had a farewell party at the place where I had been working á for a year.  That night I could not fall off to sleep.  I was sad á thinking that I would not see my nice fellow workers again.
1	When I was touring Asia with my present football team, I saw old á Europeans with young asiatic prostitutes.
0	I was angry the other day because the teacher told me to sweep á some orange peels. It was my friends who were supposed to sweep, á but the teacher told me to do it.
6	I slandered a person behind his back and he got to know about it.
3	When I broke something and a friend of mine was blamed.
3	When I did not concentrate on my studies despite my mother's help á and cooperation.
0	When the coach of our team degraded me to the second team.
0	A friend had promised me to give me a lift to Graz. To be sure I á called her before we went. She told me that she had just promised á another person to give him a lift.
0	When we still attended school, my brother and I usually went to á see our aunt and to show her our term's report. She rewarded us á with money. Although my reports were as good as my brother's, he á got more money.
5	When my father was ill.
4	Inter-national sports events won by my favourite national team or á player brings me joy, e.g when India won the World cup cricket á match.
3	When one of my lovers told me that I was a flirt.
3	When I was 17, I told Mum I came in at midnight, when really it á was 3.30.
0	When my mother told things to my sister, which I told my mother á in confindence.
6	I feel shy to show all my worth when I work for the first time á with a conductor or a producer unfamiliar to me.
4	Someone (a boy) paid special attention to me.
5	Death of General Ye Jianying.
5	When my father passed away.
6	I had lunch in a restaurant with a friend and I paid the bill.  á The change was that of a two dollar and a ten cent coin.  As I á was talking with my friend I took the two dollar coin and forgot á to leave a tip.
6	When my friend had a child out of wedlock.
4	When I had passed MCE examinations.
3	At my native place I was riding my cycle, which did not have á lights, at night and so a police man caught me.  I requested him á to let me go but he would not so after a few minutes I just á escaped.
6	When I was 13 years old I wrote passionate love letters to my á boyfriend and I later found out that his sister had read them.
5	When I first suffered from syphilis.
1	When a close friend wilfully cheated me.
4	Yesterday when I received a B on a history midterm. I felt á overjoyed after having received C's previously.
6	My mother caught me stealing some food when I was a young á boy.
1	 The smell of garlic in rush-hour bus.
4	Some time ago a close relative of mine got off cheap with the á worst.
5	"When I saw the film \Johnny got his gun\"" which deals with the á consequences of the Vietnam war."""
3	One evening I went fishing with some friends but we could not á fish as a fisherman had already put his net there.  We pulled á out the net to find only crabs in it so we threw the net away.  á The net was large and may have cost $1000.  The fisherman used á the net to earn a living and we had had thrown it.
1	I saw a film where snakes were crawling everywhere. I felt them á crawling over all my body with that ... skins. The noise that á they did disturbed me very much.
5	At the death of my husband's father's mother which occurred á during university examinations and therefore I was unable to á attend her funeral.
6	I took a girl out once and discovered that she was going around á with one of my close friends.
2	The first time that I saw a dead person.  This was when I started á my gross anatomy practicals.
2	A friend and I were going to have a study session together in á which we quiz ourselves in biology material. Because I believed I á didn't study enough. I feared I would fail.
1	Finding a hair in the soup.
4	My joy was the joy of meeting again.  My husband came home after á having been away for weeks (for work).  I was on the railway á station to meet him.
1	A friend once reacted childishly (he is 23 yearrs old) to my not á responding in his favour to a request, that is: he asked me for á some money I refused, and his reaction was quite childish.
1	When an acquaintance (he was drunk) of my room-mate vomitted on the kitchen á carpet.  It was past mid-night and my room-mate had just moved in, á this acquaintance had helped her move in.á 
2	I was raped by a friend.
3	My mother developed hipertonia and I think I too am to blame á bacause with her it is a stress disease.
0	My husband and I were invited at the house of our nieghbours then á we got an invitation on the part of my parents which we had to á refuse. A a result they called me by words that provoked my á anger.
1	I had a quarrel with a friend who lived with me in the same flat. á He moved out. Before he went he invited me and some friends for a á drink. At last he was totally drunk and smelled disgusting. á Besides, he told lies about us and behaved as if he was to be á pitied.
6	Nearly caught masturbating.
4	I was biking with my boyfriend, the sun shining after a long á period of bad beather, afterwards we spent the evening and night á together.
0	When I see how people around me pass by certain unjustice because á of indifference or cowardice.
4	At the moment when I heard the result of an examination and it á proved that I succeeded the second year of my study.
6	When a woman who I respected very much was made pregnant, á unexpectedly by a man of a caliber I never expected.
0	An old woman was violently thrown down the stairs of the tube by á a group of louts.
3	The only guilt I considered reasonable was my reproval at the end á of the semester at the University.
6	When the teacher asked me a question, I did not know the answer á and I just stood still for about a few minutes without saying a á word.
4	I was seriously injured in a road accident. The very first steps á I took with only one crutch to support me I felt so good. I enjoy á being alive.
0	One of my first boyfriends got mad at me because a lot of my á close friends were guys and he didn't want me to see them anymore á because he was jealous.
2	I was sitting on the bus coming back from school. A man from á nearly forty years sat beside me. After a while I looked at him á and saw that he was looking at me with opened throusers and á holding his penis.
1	"Grandfather lives in a home for the elderly. He always looks á forward to visits. On his birthday (by coincidence it was on á \Mummy's day\"") however, nobody went to see him. Is the own family á more important than grandfather ?"""
1	I had a very good friend (boy) and I thought I could rely on him á but he behaved badly with a girl who used to trust us completely.
1	After a serie of facts that occurred between a colleague and me I á started to feel a certain necessity to get apart and I didn't want á to see her anymore.
2	When I slept for the first time all alone in the house where I á live now. A man phoned me at 2.00 am. He wanted something from á me. I was afraid.
0	A drunken friend of mine was beating up another friend, who was á also drunk.
6	I promised a friend that I would return a book to it's owner for á him , but I forgot to do it.
2	When I think of death - not my own but that of my parents, á brothers and sisters.
6	I met a friend in a discotheque. he was with a girl and he told á me that she was not his girlfriend.  I, to say something, á commented that she must be a viscious woman.  He then told me á that she was his girl.
5	When I was told a friend's baby had been born with only partial á sight. This was her first child and she was not young (the mother á that is).
4	"The day when my son said for the first time \mummy\""."""
1	When somebody made me touch human faeces.
1	When my roommate came home at 10 in the morning after sleeping á with a guy she did not know because she got drunk. (Se has a á boyfriend too).
3	I felt guilty when I tore a photograph I found at my boyfriend's á place only to realise that it was his sister who was on the á photograph.
6	Asking someone to give me back the money I once lend him because á I needed it myself.
1	This situation occurred when I entered into a smelling ward.
1	One day my colleague misbehaved with me.  I felt disgusted and á thought to myself that he could only do this because I was a á woman.
5	When out of work.
1	When a boy I hated most in our classroom took my T Jersey from my á desk and put it on.
1	One day I went to see a rather disagreeable film (X).
0	Finding out about some girls who have been nice to the class á leader in order to go to the neuropsychology lectures (English á ones).
4	When I got a stereo walkman from my father when he had finacial á difficulties. I thought that although he promised to give me that á present, he was not obliged to do so.
4	I was very happy when I passed the B.A with first class marks.
3	Whenever I see poverty and starvation. I live in an affluent á society and am privileged to have many opportunities.
1	"When I watched TV and saw a performance of \Prince\"" (a popidol). á Disgusting he'd better be a stallion."""
4	When I received a positive answer from my appeal to withdraw my á registration at UNZA.
2	"I was walking with another person when a \gang\"" separted us and á pushed me in to a house, hit me in the stomach and the face, then á they left - leaving me bleeding."""
4	A friend of mine often had difficulties with her parents. Once á she had a child she had a better relationship with them.
1	On TV I saw a report about church in Amerika. A priest was shown á who was performing miracles in front of the camera - I felt á disgusted.
3	I felt guilt because on account of my ambitions I nearly turned á my sister out of my parents home.
2	"I was walking alone in the street late at night (2.30 am). It was á very quiet. Then a man approached me and said \Hello\""."""
0	When I found one of my new pullovers wrinkled inside the á wardrobe.  My brother had done it.
0	While in the army, I was treated unfairly by my superiors.  I was á held responsible for a deed of which I was innocent.
1	When I opted for my research field, for them the percentage of á marks was more important than my knowledge.
5	When the mother of a good friend of mine died.
5	Lost my girl-friend.
5	My grandfather died thirteen years ago.
5	[ No response.]
0	People hunting animals.
4	When we were able to afford a new sofa - a leather one which cost á SEK 20000.  I had waited for it for 2-3 years.
2	I was afraid of a certain examination although I was relatively á well prepared.
6	I felt very ashamed at having got a book by force from a girl.
1	When I discovered my mother had been having an affair with my á father's best friend, and then ran away with him without even á speaking to me about what she was doing letting me come home from á school simply to find her gone. I was filled with disgust and á contempt.
2	Waiting for my marks in a difficult subject.
6	When I got 1/2 out of 15 in Abnormal Psychology I felt ashamed.
2	I asked someone to bring some present to my father and found out á that he is not a reliable person. I was afraid if my father would á not get the presents he would be angry with me.
2	Canoeing across harbour in winds - 20 knots and rising seas.
3	When I made love with a girl, which I don't really love. However á I know that she loves me.
5	When my girlfriend left me.
4	After 10 days of hard work and having suffered many changes I á passed my last exam.
3	I felt guilty when I learnt that some of friends found the á finished at the Cafeteria because I took food which was more than á my share.
6	I had always been first in my class and in the preliminary board á exams I scored the highest marks.  Then the exams were á postponed and I neglected my studies as I was confident.  However á when the final results came out I felt ashamed as I had scored á less than 60% marks and my rank in the class was fifth or sixth.
6	An out-patient asked me to read for him a certain prescription á but I was unable to do so. The patient was dissappointed and lost á hope in me.
5	A father of 4 children killed in an accident.
5	When I heard of the death of my mother.
1	A lie on the part of a person close to me.
6	When a lady I was flirting with told all my class-mates that she á was in second year while I was in first year, everyone laughed á and started looking at me.
0	A close person lied to me.
2	I did not do well in one of the subjects last term.   I was á afraid that I would fail.  My result was a grade D, though it was á not good I still passed.  I felt more comfortable then.  
1	When I was in a Christian institution, sometimes the nuns would á send back the people who came to visit us when it was not the á visiting hours.  This disgusted me.
5	My paternal grandmother had died. We weren't close but she was á blood. I didn't cry but I was sad, partly due to her death and á partly I think, due to the fact that I couldn't/didn't cry.
6	When I went to my boyfriend's house for lunch and saw his á parents, I felt that they were watching me all the time.
0	My boyfriend told me that I had very high demands towards him. In á my opinion this was wrong.
2	Watching a horror movie with friends.
3	Not getting an airplane ticket fot my mother.
6	I told some acquaintances of mine something that I regretted á later.
4	When I passed the driving test three weeks ago and got my á licence.
2	When I was reprimanded by the manager of the hotel where I á worked during Autumn 1984.
4	During my high school time I succeeded to play a concert of á Mozart on the piano when I gave my first performance I succeeded á to play it very well.
2	I felt fear when my friend and I broke into an abandoned military á base in Los Angeles this summer. I feared because I didn't want á to be caught.
0	A friend of mine tried to persuade me to go at her place to act á as a model because she felt too tired. It was a quarter of an á hour before the appointed time, I had just lied down and did not á want to go because it was too late anyway. She said that I only á was talking about looking for work, but if it was possible I á would not accept it. I was angry about this unjust judgment.
2	First day back on the job.
1	I felt disgusted when I went to one of the Central hospitals á where my hope of getting good treatment was turned down by one of á the doctors who said I was alright despite my feeling pain.
6	I entered the wrong room, and got into a bed where someone á already was sleeping.
5	"We are several friends but our characters are very different and á we inevitably split in the two extremes. It is sad that I myself á don't know what to do, I try not to hurt either of the \parties\"" á because there are conflicts to which one I should belong."""
4	When my red-cheeked, content child runs to meet me in the yard of á the kindergarten and gives me a moist kiss on my cheek.
4	It was about a fortnight ago, I was declared successful in the á U.G.C exam this year (only four in Bombay succeeded).  My joy á knew no bounds.
6	During the oral part of my final examination I made a mistake in á speaking so that all the teachers laughed at me.
5	When my parents got divorced.
0	There was a lot of irritation between me and a person who lives á in the same house where I live. Suddenly it became too much for me and I á accused him of several things.
4	When I got a first class in the twelveth standard exams, I was very á surprised and happy and I had a very good time with my friends.
3	Missing lectures and avoiding university work for no reason when á it had to be done.
2	Before my final examination.
4	On a boat trip to Denmark, 14 of us had a lot of fun and we á spent SEK 10 each on one armed bandits and against all odds we á won the jackpot of SEK 1000.
6	When the brother-in-law of a girlfriend of mine found us in a á bedroom with clothes and panties spread all over the place.
1	We had gone to our native village and I went to visit a tribal á group which believes in Goddess Kali.  As it was a festival day they á had to offer a hen to the Goddess so they cut the head off a hen á right in front of my eyes.  I felt disgusted and evenb gave up á eating meat after this incident.
3	When I realized that not all my friends like the comments that I á pass in their presence.
5	When my car froze, and I could not start it.
1	My roommate's lack of consideration of me.
6	At a friend's party there were several allusions to my sexual adventures.
3	When my behaviour was immoral - thinking about sex.
4	When I received some good news : I obtained an amount of money I á needed to buy something I had been planning to buy.
0	After I said something that my boyfriend disagreed with, he á walked away from me without discussing what bothered him. I á became very angry with him for treating me this way. Yesterday, á November 14.
6	Some days ago I fell down at a public place, I came into notice á but thank God I was not mocked at. Though it hurt badly, at the á first moment I felt shame, not ache.
6	When I was a child it was found out that I had taken off my á clothes outdoors.  It was summer and my friend and I were out á in the woods.  It had felt exciting at that time.  My parents á discovered that my trousers were back to front and I felt á ashamed.
4	After my final examination at school I was glad that the á examination was over and that I had passed it.
6	[ No response.]
2	I was awakened by a dream in the middle of the night. I dreamt á that a stranger was in my house.
4	I came across a friend with whom I had lost touch for a long á time.
0	I get angry with my brothers and sisters when they do something á that I do not like.  They know this and still do it so as to á tease me.
2	When we were going to Nkhoma last Saturday the vehicle was moving á very fast, so I feared we might crash since the road was too á rough.
2	I have done the teachers training course (B.Ed).  During our á training I was asked to handle the ninth standard class in a boys á school.  I was scared to face the class the first day.
1	When I could not attend the college picnic due to some á difficulties.
5	When my mum's brother passed away after having been involved in a á car accident.   He was bringing me a present as I had passed my á form five exams with flying colours.
1	When my friend who is close to me got engaged and did not invite á me.
6	When I tripped while getting on a bus.
3	When I lied to my mum, who later came to know that what I had á been teling her was false.
1	When I was weeding the garden I found a lizard in my hand.
5	When I was told that a good friend was seriously ill.
0	I work for a journal. Once the lay-out came to nothing, due to á thoughtlessness of some colleagues.
1	[ Honestly, I have never felt disgust at any situation in my á life.]
4	Found out that the girl I love loves me, too.
6	When I was a child, I thought that I had to be ashamed when á asking and doing certain forbidden things.
0	Being sexually assulted on a bus.
6	When I was emotionally unstable I said things which may have hurt á others or made them feel unhappy.  When I calmed down I realized á that I had been selfish and had not taken into consideration the á feelings of others.  Then I felt ashamed as someone pointed out my á behaviour to me.
5	I am always sad when my boyfriend goes away. He lives and studies á in an other city. We have gone steady for 2 and 1/2 years and á everything is going very well, but sometime this situation makes á me feel bad and very lonely.
6	When one has been unjust, stupid towards someone else. 
2	One night, when I got out from the University I saw two strange á people near my car. When I got near, they moved away, and then á came close again. I had a feeling that they were assaulters. á After I left I discovered that the windshield was broken.
3	A neighbour complained about smoke from my backyard incinerator á entering his house after a change of wind direction. I lit the á fire after originally checking that the wind would not blow the á smoke in that direction.
4	When I saw a friend of mine, whom I had not seen for a long time á and I had lost his address and telephone number.
4	When I heard that I had passed my MCE Exam, I spent the whole á day dancing and eating sugarcanes from our garden.
3	After an argument with a friend of mine.
1	When I was working, I got treated in a way which I felt was not á democratic.
6	I received the results of the test paper of my major subject and á I found that my result was not as good as a classmate who had á recently changed his major subject.    I felt very ashamed.
3	When I knew that my niece did a bad schoolar examination because á I couldn't explain her the lesson.
1	I was sitting in school, waiting for my sister to go home. Suddenly a á boy put fire in a paper and threw it were I was sitting. The á paper didn't get me, but I felt terribly disgusted at this á cowardliness and irresponsibility that caused a great á discussion. We went to the director and he, drunk as always, said á that I was ... attention in school. I felt disgust of this á situation, and of the persons implicated in it.
6	A serious drug error while nursing that I knew I was responsible á for (patient lived, no complications fortunately).
2	When one of my relatives went out at night leaving me and my á friend alone, I cheated my parents that she didn't go out, after á they had heard that she was out, I was afraid that she might have á beaten me.
6	I came home from a party rather drunk. I said things I would á never have said normally. Next morning I was terribly ashamed á about what I had said.
0	When my sister broke my china tea set.
2	One evening, when I had gone fishing with my friends, we heard á the roar of a lion near by and had to run for our lives.
4	In a day when at work, in school, and relationships came out as I á wanted, and I was recognized in my work.
1	When my parents insisted that I take up a teaching career.
2	When I was going to take the practical exams.
4	Girlfriend arriving back from overseas and picking her up from á airport. When she finally appeared from customs and we came in á contact again.
1	Disgust with oneself after being intoxicated enough to go to bed á with a stranger.
4	My parents and brother came up over the weekend. We are a very á close family. This was my first year away from home. They brought á one jacko-lantern with a new design. That is the old joke that á we have a great new design - it's always the same.
5	A very close friend of mine died. I read it in the newspaper. I á didn't know what to do and thought about it the whole day.
1	Accidentally seeing a friend in a compromising situation with a á stranger.
2	When approached by a gang of youths in town at night.
5	Talking to a very good friend who had just had a very bad á experience which was changing his whole way of looking at life á etc.
1	A TV program on whale-hunting.
5	The sadness came to me when I heard that my girlfriend whom I á loved so much got married to another man before a rebuff from á her.
6	When I was a child: I had told my mother a lie and she found it á out.
2	Finding out that I am not an as able student as I thought.
4	When I learned that my parents were going abroad and leaving me á alone for a few years.
0	Being refused to attend the neuropsychology lecture in the á medical university.
1	A condition in which I was disgusted followed when I lost money á on my way home from the college.
3	I promised to join a meeting but did not turn up as I did not á want to do the work.
6	The day after the night I drank too much at a party.
0	The sports fishermen who catch gulls instead of fish with their hooks. á   It is often a mistake but it makes me angry.
1	Scuffle in a carriage of the underground in Vienna, three drunk á men thrashed a man in a wheel chair - I watched the scene from á another carriage.
5	When I was ditched by my girlfriend.
4	I went on a picnic to the country side park.  The beautiful á scenary made me feel relaxed and every worry disappeared , thus á the picnic was worthwhile.
6	I criticised an action of my mother and for the first time she á genuinely took notice of it. I felt shame that I was almost á taking the part of a husband, or at least an equal which I should á not.
6	When I could not remember what to say about a presentation task á at an accounts meeting.
5	Death of grandmother.
1	Getting into a crowded bus.
4	I felt very happy when I heard I had passed the examination to á move up to the second year course.
4	Receiving my result slip (pass) on my birthday.
5	After an operation I had to stay in bed for a long time.
4	After a weekend at a seminar I saw my husband again. I hurried á home hoping he would be there. We embraced - I enjoyed feeling á his body.
0	I missed the train and had to wait for the next for two hours. á For this reason I missed an appointment which had been very á important for me.
3	When I felt I had let my parents down, especially my mother, by á having sexual intercourse for the first time, and a few times á after that. Also, when I went on the Pill.
1	I had some sort of a stomach virus last week and  I vomited in á college in the morning, then in the cake shop, three times during á the trip home and again when I got home.
3	I did badly in one of the vital exams, despite getting proper á guidance from my parents.  I felt guilty of improper use of the á chances provided to me. 
4	I asked someone to go out and she accepted right away.
1	I felt disgusted when my appointment to meet the E.N.T. á specialist had been turned down. The specialist came from U.K. á and went the same day and we do not have one.
4	The time when my sister had her first baby I was so happy and á joyous because she stayed for two days after marriage before she á had a child.
0	Finding out that I was deceived by a friend.
4	When I was accepted at UNZA.
2	My sister had to undergo a very complicated operation, her á eyesight was at stake.
5	When my grandfather died.
5	I saw a dead child which was not covered, it had been knocked á down by a car.
0	A person ignored my advice, did not pay any attention to what was á saying. She acted as though I wasn't even there. We were doing á group work so everybody had the right to speak yet she just á ignored me. She made me feel insignificant.
2	When my father died I felt myself alone and the fear possessed me. á I was a child and all my sisters and brothers (8) were young.
2	When I was a kid, I always opened the door to greet my father á when he came back from work.  One day it so happened that his á hair was scattered due to over-crowding in the train, and when I á opened the door as usual I saw something else.  I was so scared á that I could not talk.
1	My dog had been run over and died near the house.  We had to pick á him up, cold and glassy eyed, to get rid of the corpse.
3	Car accident. I let a 16-year old, incompetent parson take the á wheel and I feel very guilty about what happened even though I á suffered the worst injuries.
3	I felt guilty when I was given a prize which belonged to someone á else.
5	The thought that I'll never sit at the school desk again, caused á a deep grief at the end of my eleventh form.
4	After completing high-school, I wanted to go abroad for a á holiday.  I had never been abroad before and neither had I taken á a holiday for a long time.  When finally my parents agreed and we á got the airplane tickets I was over joyed.
5	When my team lost a championship.
6	When I had to walk home from the bus-stop in a skirt that I had á soiled.  It drew a lot of attention and they all seemed to want á to see the blood stains.
3	NO RESPONSE.
1	When I saw a film in which the man suffered from an illness and    á his skin came peeling off.
4	This emotion happened when I passed my primary school examination á and was selected for Secondary School.
3	The night of a high school dance, I went partying and collided á with another car. Both cars were totalled; people were injured á but not seriously.
6	The 2nd time someone I had met cared for came over to my house I á was absolutely inebriated and was sick into a bucket.
4	The last time I had sex.
1	"I heard somebody talk about studies in a highly enthusiastic á \student-like\"" way."""
3	While having an argument with my daughter, I got angry and á over-excited and said angry words.
6	[ I am quite shameless, not applicable.]
4	When I received my report card in C.O.U.  I was afraid of obtaining á low marks, but they were much higher than expected.  
6	When I was unable to respond to a welcome in my indigenous á language of Maori at an important function where I was the only á woman in the group and it was expected of me.
4	When I got a letter offering me the Summer job that I had applied á for.  
3	When I was bluffing in front of my mother to get more money.
0	I was coming home in a taxi with a fellow worker of mine.  He was á criticizing my earlier conduct towards him, which to my mind was á unfounded.  When I reached home, I ran out of the taxi and á slammed the door.
5	A friend of mine could not make it back to Unza after having á failed the exams.
6	One day when I came back home, I found my favourite dish broken.  á I blamed the servant for it, later I found out that it was not á the servant but my daughter who had broken it.
5	One of my good friends had to migrate to America.  Our friendship á had developed quite well and it was a pity as our friendship would á fade.
4	Reunion with my wife after a legal separation.
4	I went shopping with my parents - my father payed everything for á me, I was very glad.
0	I went to a fair where a guy who was drunk kept bothering me and á in the end I got really angry.
3	Made a misjudgement in a football match.
4	An encounter with a man whom I love, after a very long á separation.
5	I felt alone among a large number of people.  I was sad to see á that nobody cared about what was happening to me.
4	Talking to my close friend.
1	At school, I detested the spinach gruel which had lumps of flour á in it.
2	It was more that fear - anguish -that I felt before my last exam.
1	A drunken man forced me to kiss him.
2	In a dark street at 4 o'clock in the night and there was á complete silence.
3	After yelling at my girlfriend, I felt bad because she was ? á crying and upset.
5	A friend of mine is having psychiatric problems because of his á mother's death ages ago. He is really quiet and because it á relates back to his childhood I feel sadness for him. He doesn't á lead a normal life and it just seems unfair.
3	I felt guilty when one of my secondary teacher left me while I á was in Form three, he was the only one who showed love to me.
5	My boy-friend an I seperated on his initiative.
0	I was angry when my sister began to talk nonsense and to laugh at á the way I swept the room.  My anger grew (I tried to control á myself).  After telling her to leave me alone, I vented my anger á on her as she did not obey me.
5	When the thing that made my friends and relatives sad happened to á them.
0	When people would tell me that my ex-girlfriend was playing á around on me.
5	When my grandfather died.
6	Zhu Jianhau did not break the world record for China.
1	Once I offended a friend, instead of her coming to me to ask and á discuss the matter she was just telling other people about it and á say all she could about me.
5	When my mother died.
3	A few days back my mother was not feeling too well and still did á all the house work.  I felt guilty as I had not offered to help.
5	When I did not get the salary increase that I had been expecting á and understood how little one's work was appreciated.
1	When Kanishka was blown up, I really felt disgusted at people á killing each other.
0	When my dad told me about something he had done against my á mother.
3	I had a discussion with my girl-friend. After some time we á started to quarrel and at least - to get the upper hand - I said á that she was not as important to me as she might believe. Some á time later I apologized for that.
5	Several years ago my mother died. She had been ill for a long á time, but nevertheless her death came unexpectedly. I did not and á I still do not want to believe that it is true.
6	Once I had dinner at an elegant restaurant and I did not have á enough money to pay the bill. There were a lot of people there á and I felt quite awkward.
0	At the hairdresser's, I got two stains of dyestuff on my new á trousers. These stains are not removable, so I cannot put on the á trousers again.
0	One of my best friends accused me of giving up to early on á problems. It was only a casual remark on her side, but I was á angry and hurt.
3	When in grade 3, late home from school every day for weeks á because of harassment from a grade 7 boy I lied to mother about á why I was home late.
1	Right now I volunteer at a hospital. Yesterday, Halloween, I á dressed up as a doctor and went to work. The volunteer á coordinator told me after my shift that it was dangerous to have á done what I did.
0	I get angry with people who attain certain status without á deserving it, only with the support, authority and influence of á other people.
0	Brother continually interupting while I was talking on the á telephone.
0	I had gone on a vacation and my mother left home without leaving á me any thing - money to come back to school.
1	One of my good friends told people something I had told her á in confidence about someone else.
0	I felt anger against a colleague of mine during a rehearsal in á acting. He hadn't learnt the text of an opera act in the course of á several months and thus making difficulties for the rest of my á colleagues.
5	The breaking up of a relationship.  We decided that the á relationship could not carry on, so it was no surprise to me. á And anyhow, I had known it would happen sooner or later.
3	I had an argument with my boyfriend.  It was my fault but my á pride would not let me admit it.
0	I had just seen my pseudo-girlfriend and our conversation angered á me greatly.
0	When my friend (girl) promised to help me go to the hospital and be á examined by good experts and she deceived me.
2	I was in a dark cellar and saw a glowing red point. I thought á that it was a person with a cigarette - but it was only the red á switch.
6	When I confessed to my girl-friend (now my wife) that I had á betrayed her with another woman.
0	When I was driving home after  several days of hard work, there á was a motorist ahead of me who was driving at 50 km/hour and á refused, despite his low speeed to let me overtake.
5	When I was left alone one week-end without being prepared for á it.
2	I had a driver licence but I didn't drive for a long time, than I á started to drive again, and had to get into hard transit and á highways.
1	A child told me she had been sexually abused by her step-father. á I only knew the child and had not come into contact with either á parent. I tried to do what was best for the child. The event and á the stepfather disgusted me.
4	Going to a concert.
2	I was in Sierra Nevada, climbing a peak over 3,000 metres high, á without any light and with many other problems.  I was afraid for á my life.
4	I shot the decisive goal in an ice-hockey match.
3	I got back too late after a Sunday going out without having á called up home to tell where I was. my mother hadn't slept the á whole night.
1	Some boys not cueing in the dining hall.
1	[ No response.]
5	The time I lost a badminton match, that I should have won at the á Zambia closed badminton championships.
5	When my grandmother, who has been living with us for 14 years, á had a stroke and was left paralysed on one side. She has been á quite close to our family and to see her suffer in this way makes á me feel really sad.
3	When my uncle and my neighbour came home under police escort.
0	I was supposed to meet my girlfriend at a pre-arranged place but á it took me an hour to find her.
0	I live with my sister now and sometimes she angers me especially á when she thinks I don't keep the apt. clean enough.
2	I was at home alone, and heard noises on the roof, and doorknobs, á and drawers.
6	One day I got on the bus without any money or season ticket and á the driver threw me out.
4	When my boyfriend came form Rumphi to Lilongwe for a visit I was á very happy to see him and couldn't believe it was him with me.
4	After I had had a disappointment in my private life, my friend, á who studies in Vienna, came to see me spontaneously.
5	When my uncle died I saw a funeral for the first time. All people á stood around the open grave and cried.
3	Mentioning a book to the person who borrowed it.
1	When I discovered that my mother had been involved in adultery.
1	It was a narrow and dirty passage which was located near the á market and I had to stand there to wait for people.
2	Being chased in the dark by someone I did not know.
1	I trusted a friend of mine, but she lied to me about something á and this disgusted me.
1	When I found out that someone close to me was flirting around.
6	While watching a religious film, I got very excited and made a á number of comments which were reproached to me by an elderly á person who respected me.
0	When my brother got very low marks in the exams, I was very angry. á I put my studies aside to help him, as every time my brother does  á badly at school, my family members blame me as well.á á 
4	When my son was born.
6	[ Never experienced.]
5	When a friend of mine told me that he was going to commit á suicide.
6	Caught lying to my father about a speeding ticket I had received.
3	I cut a friend's hair in anger, without any consideration.
3	I forgot about a close relatives's birthday.
2	When my boyfriend was leaving to go home one night, I had a very á deep sense of uneasiness and an unwarranted fear that I wouldn't á see him again.
4	After I saw my family and good friends back after staying one á year in a foreign country. 
4	When they phoned me from Great-Britain to tell me that I could go á there, if I wished, in Summer.
3	"When I was about 14 years old, I \borrowed\"" a can of drink from á the refrigerator, intending to replace it later that day. But it á was found missing before I could do anything - no one owned up to á its disappearance."""
6	Arguing about price with private shop-assistant.
2	I was watching a procession during the Holy week, and a penitent á approached me.
5	I felt sad when a friend of mine died and I felt that something á had irrevocably gone away from me.
4	Did well in an examn just before my father's birthday: the best á present I can give to my father.
6	One night I had a sexual intercourse with another man.  My sexual á desire and my curiosity had made me jump into bed with him.  I am á ashamed of myself now.
6	I confused a girl with another.
6	In the compartment of a public transport railway, I did not give á my seat to an old man who was standing near me.  It was another á teenager who did so.
3	I have a two-month old baby.  When I came here, to the á university, to attend lectures, I had to leave the baby with his á father.  I felt guilty.
3	When I promised to visit my boyfriend and I didn't fulfil the á promise.
4	I went home and visited with my family and friends.
1	A rich man expressing disgust towards an alcoholic.
0	When a friend who comes visiting me unexpectedly asks for coffee á and I refuse to give him this.
1	A relative not acting on her promise.
6	When I was a child, I had a medical check-up. I had to undress á myself and was examined by several doctors.
6	When I received a letter from my girlfriend telling me that she á was engaged to an another man.
4	I received the message that I'd been accepted at the school where I á really wanted to go.
3	Telling friends about your nickname.
4	When I heard the examination results and when I recovered after á having been sick for a week.
4	I met my girlfriend on the way and she joyfully welcomed me on á the way home.
3	When my friend failed an exam by just one mark.  During this exam á she had asked me to show her my answer sheet and I had not done á it.  When the results came out, I thought that had I shown her my á answer sheet she would have passed the exam.  I felt guilty as I á had failed her.
1	When someone whom I trusted, disappointed me terribly.
0	When my son omits to carry out certain duties at home that he á knows needs doing.
2	When I nearly drowned in icy water wearing ice skates.  It was á difficult to get out.
6	"A daughter in court for staff pilfering, she was dressed like a á \street walker\"" - I had a friend form overseas with me and was á falsely trying to impress with my family."""
4	When my boyfriend once again told me that he loved me after a á period in which he felt very depressive.
5	Death of a close friend.
6	When I got really drunk on Norvegian Indipendence Day, and was á not allowed to participate in football (soccer) games for two á weeks. That was very unpleasant.
3	One day my boyfriend put my hand on his penis and I felt well, á but after I felt a guilty conscience because I hadn't thought á about the consequences that this could have brought if I had gone á farther.
2	I had an appointment with a good friend. He came 3 hours later á than we agreed upon. During the last hour of waiting I was afraid á something might had happened, because usally he is in time.
5	My elder sister whom I love very much was leaving for the          á West Indies for two years and I was staying behind.
2	[ Meeting some new (unpleasant) people or some new, demanding á situation.]
0	One night I could not practise my violin as my family was á watching T.V with the lights off, so I wanted to listen to some á tapes.  It was dark so I asked my brother to bring me a torch, á however he scolded me.  I was so angry that I slammed my violin á on the floor.
5	I felt sad with the two situations I described before. The cat á and the school. Sadness was intermingled with the other feelings.
3	I did not go to help a friend of mine, though she probably needed á me.
1	Postgraduate students talking about girls stupid.
2	When my mother entered surgery for a quadruple heart bypass. I á felt intense fear at the time she was actually wheeled away.
2	Housesitting and hearing the alarm go off. I knew someone had to á be breaking in. I called the police and was panicking while on á the phone. It was awful. It turns out that I stepped on the á hidden alarm without prior knowledge of its existance.
4	When I obtained good marks in a subject I had failed before.
4	Sitting alone in a quiet room concentrating on things happening á around me which pleases me.
5	My best friend suddenly acting strange towards me.
5	My younger brother and sister were involved in an accident on á their way back from school and my brother was quite badly hurt.
0	One day, I discussed a very important question with A.  A á suddenly declared that he would not accept my position and á thought that he himself was right.  Moreover, he attacked  á strongly, not my opinion but me personally.
1	When I got indecent offers.
4	Hearing that I had been successful in getting a position whereby á my financial, physical, spiritual and emotional needs will be á well catered for. This position fulfils a lot of my aims for the á last five years of my life.
5	The loss of a person I loved very much.
4	Helping in the nursery school.
4	When I got the scholarship letter from Australia.
5	[ When I am, in my opinion, not understood correctly. ]
1	When a girl said in my back that we were in love, and she had á actually refused me.  When I confronted her she started insulting á me.
5	Not winning a medal in the swimming contest.
4	I felt happy at the end of a 10 day student camp.  We had shared á our hopes and aspirations and in the open situation so generated, we á had made strong frienships and experienced our own worth as well. á  
2	My mother, my sister and I were sitting in the sitting room and á watching a film on TV. My father came home drunk and told us to á turn off. When we did not do that he switched off the fuse and á started shouting. We were sitting in the dark and I was afraid á that he would do us a harm.
0	My girlfriend started singing (she cannot sing) and did not stop á despite my asking her to do so.
6	Breaking an implicit promise.
0	I was angry with a friend of mine who behaved in an affected á manner.
4	Last course, when I passed with good marks three subjects which I had á previously failed.
6	During our last exarcise in agricultural machines we went out in á the yard to examine a row of machines. But we seemed not to have á fulfilled our task well, because when our teacher came and asked á me a question I was unable to answer. I felt awkward because he á didn't deserve it.
4	When my father bought me a suit.
4	I sensed such a feeling when I understood I was admitted to the á University. I was at home, the atmosphere was still, though I á myself was full of suspense. I tried to do different things. When á the telephone rang and...! Yes, of course there were other á situations when I felt a similar feeling but I was unmindful of á them.
4	[ No response.]
2	Climbing a mountain where the rocks were very loose. When we á realized the danger, we were very high up, but still had a long á climb ahead.
6	I once felt shame when I failed to fulfil the promise to marry a á daughter of a certain gentleman.
3	I was using my sister's stereo while everyone was out. I know she á wouldn't want me to and I would get into trouble if she found á out. But she was only partly justified in forbidding me to use á it. She never found out.
6	I was ashamed of the way I deceived that I could not help a á friend, although it was absolutely possible for me. Nothing was á revealed but I haven't called up this person since then.
6	When you betray the trust you have been given. This is connected á with copying at a class-work at school.
6	"At school I was talking to a classmate about mathematics.  I had á grown weary of it and said : \I would like to throw the book on á the arse of Kuikka\"".  My classmate said : \""Now, he is sitting á there and waiting for the book\"" (Kuikka was one of the most quiet á boys of the class).  I was ashamed of myself."""
6	I met a woman who was looking for our house. She stopped me but I á ran away. When I arrived at home I found the same woman and she á told my parents what had happened so I felt ashamed.
2	"My boyfriend hinted over the phone about wanting to \be free\"".  á He thus did not say it point blank, silence followed."""
1	Dog dirt which thaws in the spring.
2	I was almost caught in the girls hostel by the security men, I á would have been expelled from school had I been caught.
0	It was during the beginning of the term. I had K100 and kept it á in my handbag. I left the handbag in the wardrobe but didn't á lock it. Next time I found that K30 were stolen.
5	At our Senior dinner - separated from school friends, nothing á will ever be the same again.
0	Being sexually assulted on a bus and noone helped (people only á laughed).
5	A friend of mine who was driving a car ahead of me died in a á car accident.
0	When the person I am going out with let me down in a situation á that I was depending on them, and didn't show respect or care.
2	In a dam lake, when the water was let flow to water the plants á and I and two other boys were near the water pit. We rescued á ourselves only thanks to the flippers and the tyre that was with á us.
4	Got a present from my friend for my birthday.
3	When I told my uncle a false story - that people had stolen the á books from my room and I demanded money from him.  When he found á out the truth I was in trouble.
1	I was reading in the paper the feature on Henry Lucas who claims á to have killed 380 people. He was a recreational killer and a á necrophiliac and zoophiliac. He has raped and beaten many women á and killed men too.
6	On own reading book. Recall came to mind of slight sexual á exploitation of a female (years ago) i.e. had her on even for á sexual motives.
0	A friend whom I had gone out of my way to do something for did á not bother to acknowledge my efforts, and treated me badly á thereafter.
6	When I failed the S.S.C examination I felt very ashamed.
1	I and my friends got acquainted with a guy from Sofia who turned á out to be gay, but we found that out only after 2 or 3 days.
0	Realizing that a friend had been talked into signing a certain á contract.
5	When my boyfriend was changing his behavior there was something á wrong, I felt sad, because it's desagreable when a relationship á is ending.
0	When I realized that I was far behind the others in the language á course and I could no longer catch up with the others.
2	When I was little I lost control of my bike and started to go á into a buay intersection but my neighbor stopped me just in time.
1	In a public swimming hall I saw a very aggressive man who á practically attacked the children who got in his way when he was á swimming.
2	When going out I am threatened regularly by two punk-girls.
0	Yesterday I read in the newspaper that a 30 year old woman had á abused her 2 month old son and had caused his death.  I was very á angry after reading this as this is not a human act and to abuse á so fragile a life is not a forgivable sin.
3	When I lied at home.   I told them that I was going to a á Christian meeting and I went to see my boyfriend instead.
5	When my brother's visa for the U.S.A got cancelled.
3	Leaving University in 1982 following exclusion and lying to á parents/friends about reasons for leaving, i.e. lying about the á fact of having been excluded.
2	When I was an exploration with my friends and almost got lost in á an unfamiliar environment.  It was getting dark and we did not á know how to get back home.
0	I was asked to stop studying economics, a field which interested á me, by my employers.
5	Iqam chosen for your lecture and my best friend is not. Now he is á angry with me and I cannot help him.
1	A  group of youngsters dressed in fads talked foul language on a á bus.  They also insulted the  pedestrians on the road and were á impolite to the passengers of the bus.
3	My sister forgot to bring presents for my birthday, I was rude to á her.
0	When talking with my sister, she often ventilates prejudices, á which my father also adheres.
2	Once late at night (around midnight) a person asked me to give á him a lift. He suddenly tried to attack me but I could escape. á After this he followed me for a little while.
0	At home when they lost three pieces of my puzzle.
1	I went to spend a night with a relative of mine and there I á found that the bed had been wet the previous night.
1	When someone I had had a relationship (purely sexual) with came á up to me after I had used her and acted as if nothing had á changed.
1	When I watched a film about the problems of abandoned children á (PIXOTE).
3	"When my Bictorian \friend\"" was staying at my house we ere going á places together, and sleeping together. At the time I had a á boyfriend locally. The first time I had to face him after á sleeping with the guy from Melbourne I felt very guilty."""
1	My mother was always fastidious about my room, bed time, etc.  á She treated us strictly and punished us physically.   These á things were intolerable.
1	I was hitch-hiking when a man stopped and gave me a lift to á Nijmegen. During the ride he asked me whether I was in for fun. á The man was fat and tatooed.
4	The day I got a telegram telling me that I had been selected for á a B.A at UNZA.  I felt happy because I had not expected to be á selected.
1	I assisted to a scene where the police attacked a person that á didn't have his documents. The savagery was too much, and the á attacked person bleeded to much.
0	[ Whenever I put myself in other's shoes and try to make the á person happy, comfort him or make friends and I am misunderstood á and rejected, especially when this person is a family member or a friend.]
6	I had never made a malicious joke in front of my boyfriend. Last á week I did it I was funny, he loved it, and I died of shame.
1	I felt disgusted on seeing my boyfriend after our separation.  á One day he was begging at the mass transit railway station and at á that moment I hated him.
0	When I told off a computer teacher who did not want to teach me á beacause of prejudice.
0	A quarrel with my mother because I thought she said very á unreasonable things about me, that hit me strongly.
0	Once my father slapped my mother for a small quarrel.
6	My mother revealed personal details about me and the á negative aspects of my character to other people when I was á present but unable to defend myself.
1	Disgust with myself for consistently making foolish errors in á communicating with others (asking for 1/2 Kg of nuts when I only á wanted 50 g).
3	"Adolescent guilt growing up feeling \bad, immoral\"" sexual á desires, some 10yrs ago."""
5	After studying a lot for my H.S.C exams, I could not make it to á the medical stream and I felt sad about this.
1	We had a birthday party with 5 friends. One of us frequently used á hard drugs. On the party I discovered that the other 3 friends á also used them. While we agreed we would help the big user to á stop using it.
4	Seeing relations from overseas after a few years.
3	Feeling helpless, not being able to accomplish what I really á wanted to do.
6	Caused fault in V.C.R. by not following instructions carefully.
1	A similar feeling I felt quite recently while travelling in a á taxi. The driver treated me roughly and dishonestly - he chose á the longest route, he overdrawed almost one lev more and he tried á to be intimate with me.
2	The fear about my future : work, making ends meet and health. á Coping.
1	When I saw all the very drunk kids (13-14 years old) in town on á Walpurgis night.
0	My parents thought that I didn't do my best to pass the final á examination (secondary school). When I achieved a good grade they á said nothing, but if I had had a bad grade they would have become á very angry.
3	When I was scolded by my dad for bad behaviour.
2	When diving deep into the sea to reach the floor I felt á breathless. I was cautious but I doubted I should be able to come á to the surface and inhale.
6	I thought of myself as being clumsy when I made love for the á first time with a girl.
1	A student who lives in the same house where I live is an alcoholic. He á tries to manipulate other people with his money when he has drunk á too much.
3	When caught shop-lifting as for shame.
6	I felt ashamed of myself the first time I drank as nobody in the á family drinks.  I felt that I had let down my parents and my á friends.
1	I had to change a baby's clothes for the first time.
5	When my gradmother died.  I felt very sad then ... The feeling á started to be worse after a while.
2	I was raped once when I went through a dark alley at the back of á our house. The man pushed me in the bushes. I fought back and á succeeded to escape.
5	Leaving home to move closer to University. As an oldest child, á this experience was traumatic for both my parents and myself.
5	The dying of a close member of the family.
2	I saw a man who had had a heart-attack and who was being á treated for it.  I feared that my own father could have been á there.
1	My boyfriend and I did not have any contact with each other during  á the Summer holidays.  I met him the day of the registration and looked  á through him.  In the canteen he asked me if I wanted to have a drink and  á I said no as I did not want him to do me a favour.
6	When not fulfilling any of my obligations to a person whom I á respect.
2	When I was young I got lost on the street and the police found me á after a day.
4	In summer when I was sailing with friends in Greece I felt joy.
6	My boyfriend had drunk too much and beaten me. When I had to show á the letter the door, which was almost crashed, I felt ashamed.
4	I won a sport contest.
4	I had the unexpected possibility to see a friend I like very á much.
3	I let my pet budgie loose to fly around my room one afternoon. A á few hours afterwards I found he was still free, went in and out á of my room leaving the door open. My cat got in and killed my á budgie - this happened to 3 budgies.
1	In the morning, the cat of my landlady had vomited on the floor, á near the staircase I take to go to the bathroom.
5	At the end of my senior yr. in high school I found out that a á friend of mine I knew had cancer had been diagnosed as terminally á ill.
6	When I had not prepared my contribution to the group as á thoroughly as the other members, with the result that the á overall result was poor.
5	When boyfriend could not stand up to his mother or for himself.
5	The day that the results of the college entrance examinations for á the S. Paulo University were published and I didn't find my name á on the list. Entering this University was my greatest wish, and  á the fact of not having succeded caused a great frustration, and á not only sadness.
6	There is one thing which makes me feel shameful,  when I see á friends of my age group working and earning a lot, when I am á still studying.  A friend I met a week ago after a period of 5 á years is earning more than Rs 3000/ month.
2	On a holiday in France I made a walk in the woods all alone and á very relaxed. Then a motorbike took me over and I saw the man á watching all the time. Suddenly the man stood behing me and I ran á away fast.
1	I felt disgust when I saw a dead animal on the roadway.
0	My father accused my brother of having bumped his car, and it was á wrong.
1	When my grandmother was about 80 years old, she lived with us for á several years. I saw her illness. I did not even want to breath á the air that smelled of her presence.
3	I had promised to send something to a friend and it completely á slipped my mind.  I felt guilty for having forgotten.
1	On Christmas day a drunk man came to our house without a shirt á on, he dansed, spoke nonsense and behaved stupidly.
4	When I passed the university entrance exam.
1	When I heard about a murder of a 16-year-old girl.
1	Disgust with a subordinate.
2	Fear of doing well on a midterm.
6	[ No response.]
1	A striking act of ingratitude at a public vehicle.
5	A friend of mine got pregnant anf failed the first year at á university.  The boyfriend refused his responsibility and they á ended up in court.
0	My mother and her friends were speaking badly about my father á when they were separated, and my brothers and sisters and myself á were allowed to listen.
5	A class-mate died after being two months in coma, after a car á accident.
4	When I saw a person I had not seen for a long time.
6	I was very fat and felt absolutely unwell. I was afraid of á leaving the house and getting to know new people.
3	I promised my friends that I would take care of something, but I á kept forgetting about it.  When they asked me about it, I á promised to do it immediately.  However, I got started only after á a couple of months.  I felt that I had betrayed my friends.
2	Being alone in Europe and having to catch a train and bus to the á airport, then board the plane alone.
3	Some days ago I had a slight car accident through my fault.
0	A girl entered in the division where I work and greeted everybody á but not me.
1	I went to a party and there were some cakes which weren't good á and had a bad smell.
2	Crossing a street of several ways the cars began to move and I á thought that I was going to be trampled.
2	Before an examination: I had the fealing that I had not learned á enough.
5	One night my father suddenly suffered from a heart attack which á lead to breathing difficulties.
0	(1) My father died. (2) My natural father contacted me a year á after my father died and this angered me more as I thought he á should be dead and not my father.
0	When the bus driver failed to stop and pick me up at a bus stop.
2	I was in the dark room, it's insecure and has holes covered with á wooden sheets in the roof the establishment had already been á assaulted and could be assaulted again.
0	In the last year of the high school we had a huge fight between á my group and the graduation commission (two students of my á classroom) because they accused us unjustly of a gossip about á them.
2	Car accident nearly occurred between us and drunk driver coming á in opposite direction it missed us by approx 1 m and collided á (after rolling twice midair) into nearby scrub.
0	When I failed my S.S.C exam.
1	When I heard that one of my good friends, when at a party, had á got herself involved with some very undesirable characters and á was experimenting with drugs.
2	I felt the above condition when I took my brother's bicycle to a á market and unfortunately the bicycle was stolen and I didn't know á how I could tell the owner about the stolen bicycle.
2	When I was walking down the street, some boys showed me a knife á and stole all my money.
5	When my best friend promised to come at my house and I had to á prepare so many expensive things for her but only to learn at á last that she would not turn up.
4	It was when a friend took me to a place and gave me as a gift my á astrologycal map with the explanations of a psychologist.
0	When I read about Reagan's tactical decision concerning the á South African boycott.
2	You may find out that I am stupid and not to let me do your á experiment.
1	"The repression of rioting and non-rioting \Blacks\"" in South á Africa by the police of that \""Democracy\""."""
2	When I had gone for a boxing tournament which ended at 2 o'clock á in the morning.  I was alone on my way back, and I could hear the á barking of the dogs, the nocturnal animals and the sound of my     á own footsteps.  There had been a rumour  circulating that there á were ghosts in that area.
6	[ No response.]
6	Being criticized by teacher in public.
5	Being misunderstood by friends.
3	[ I had, by being silent, disapproved my love and made him á unhappy.  He had not been able to keep his promise.  I thus was á thinking about my own conduct towards another person.]
4	I received an unexpected letter from a friend I had met a short á time before.  He sent me a poem and wished me good luck.  I felt á very happy because I had great esteem for that person.
1	During these Summer vacations a schoolmate who was not in my á class went to Britain.  Before he left, his classmates and some á of us who were accquainted with him had a B.B.Q on the beach.  á When I arrived I saw that some people , who were not close á friends of the departing person(person A), were playing mahjong.  á Some others were playing bridge and A had nothing to do, besides á it was A who had prepared the food.  Later when we wanted to talk á and his classmates did not even have the decency to listen to him.  á They only asked him a few questions half-heartedly and then they á talked on their own.  Some of their conversation was against me and  á another classmate.
2	When I was first taken to the dissection room where I found 10 dead á human bodies.
4	My mother along with some of my friends gave me a surprise á birthday party - they invited a large number of my friends along á too.
2	I was fearful when I realised that the relish was overcooked á simply because I was not keen enough at checking whether there á was still enough water in the relish or not, instead I was just á playing with my friends.
3	When something unpleasant happens to a friend or relative of á yours and you are at the bottom of it.
6	When my best friend foud out I'd been lying about something I'd á been doing behind her back.
2	When a thunder belt hit the roof top of the building I was in.
1	When my uncle comes (3 times a year) for the traditional á Christmas dinner with my grandparents and other relatives and is á very drunk.
0	The headmistress at a secondary school accused me of banging the á classroom door when I didn't in front of the whole class.
0	Jealous of my husband's old girlfriend.  We met her with her á husband and there was a lot of reminiscing.
0	"When my mother and father split up I was angry: I felt deprived á and \different\"" from other children at school."""
5	When I thought for an instant that a very good relationship with á a person had finished.
2	In a flat in Sydney - rough area at home on my own - the flat had á been burgled the night before and no way of locking the door.
0	I felt angry when my only pair of trousers was stolen and could á not be able to find out who the thief was or anyone who knew á about the story.
5	When I knew almost the same day about two great friends of mine á that had serious existential crisis, and mainly when I notice á that I'm in the same situation that they are, but I didn't á realize it.
3	I felt guilty when I lied to my parents.
6	My teacher asked me a question which I failed to answer and I was á told to stay behind after the class and give the answer after á studying it from a book.
4	One Saturday afternoon, I deliberately dressed up nicely (I had á been in a bad mood of late).  I hoped to go for a walk in the á soft sunlight to try and uplift my spirits.  When I was having á lunch in the canteen, two of my male classmates asked me as to á why I was dressed so nicely (they had seldom joked with me á before).  One of them said that he had a lounge suit and we would á look very nice if we wore them together.
3	[ No response.]
3	The greatest guilt I felt and I didn't know if it was really á justified is that when I was a child I had a brother very close á to me. He  became ill, and asked me to see  him in the hospital. á I didn't go, when his situation became worse in the U.I.T. (Unity á of intensive therapy) I went and he died.
6	When someone pointed out that I was proud, yet I didn't dress up á properly. This was when I and my friend went for a dnce one á Saturday.
3	I remember deceiving my brother, I told him that I was going to á attend the Sunday service, instead I went out to the town with a friend. 
5	When my uncle died whom I had loved very much. I was very sad and á I felt totally helpless.
3	I met my ex boyfriend by chance.  We separated a few months ago á and I am now with a new boyfriend.  My ex boyfriend looked á depressed, and I know I am not to be blamed.
2	When I was 12 years old I frequently was pursued by others and á got sound thrashes.
0	When I received the mark well above requirements for the course I á wanted to enter, yet I was not accepted - anger at the injustice á of it, because I didn't receive early release of H.S.C. marks.
0	When a teacher though pretending to be a highly cultivated á teacher and a man, slapped a classmate of mine in the face quite á undeservedly.
2	During a football game I made an offence towards an acquaintance. á Later on this acquaintance also tackeled me and the game became á very rude.
2	Travelling by coach on a rather narrow and wet road.
5	After hearing the news about the death of my sister, I felt very á sad.
0	My cousins were playing at home and one of them broke a decorative á object which was very precious to me.
3	I felt guilty when I read an advertisement for a job as a chemist á in the newspaper and when my friend asked me if I had applied for á that job, I told him that I had not even seen the paper of that á day.
2	After my shoulder operation, I woke up in the hospital room á alone. I was in pain and was still under heavy medications. I á could not find my parents.
2	A truck (big one) nearly mowed me off the road (I was driving a á small Lazer).
4	Going to see a good film with my best friend.
5	[ A person close to me told me that his positive regard depended á on my conduct.]
6	When caught shoplifting and the police were called in parents á also informed.
1	One day I was walking with my boyfriend. We met my ex-boyfriend á and out of jealousy he started calling me names.
4	When I learnt that I was selected for form I.
0	When they put the blame on me when I scored the third goal at the á match.
6	Forgot to do some shopping that I had promised to do.
4	When I finished my exams after 12th Grade, I was worried about á getting a T.E. Score high enough for Physiotherapy. When I found á that I had been accepted I was ecstatic, or more appropriately, á could jump for joy.
1	When I was younger I often saw my father come home drunk (he had á big problems at that time). Once he woke me up in the middle of á the night and shouted at me.
5	Failed an examn.
5	A close friend of mine was to get married in a weeks time when á her father died of a heart-attack.  I knew him well and felt bad á on hearing of his death.
2	When at school, I threw a duster at another child and hit him in á the head. The blow caused a flesh wound and I was afraid of what á would happen to me when the teacher found out the circumstances.
3	When I took a small boy's share of choclale.  He was our guest á and so had been given a larger share of the sweets.
4	Passing a very difficult examination which I didn't expect - MCE.
6	I experienced shame when I failed to keep a promise to meet my á friend at the bus depot. He later came and asked me why I had not á turned up.
6	When I proposed love to a girl and she turned me down.
0	When I saw parents punishing their little child for something he á had not done.  In my opinion, even if he had done it he should á not have been punished for it.
1	When I was giving private tutorials to my student; he would not á concentrate and was lazy.  He had not done the home work that I  á had assigned and his academic level was very low.  It was a á nuisance.
5	Railway station good-bye.
5	I was very sad when I could not take the M.A (I) exams due to á illness, and a relative of mine disheartened me about it.
2	When I went to town in a double dekker bus.  The bus was about to á fall on the way when the driver controlled it.  It had almost á fallen.
3	When I didn't pass the examinations for FUVEST I felt myself á guilty for I should have studied. I had the opportunities, and á I drew them out.
6	When I had a Latin examination in school.
4	When I passed an exam.
4	I got a job right after school was over.
6	When I got drunk at a party and made a fool of myself by á vomitting all over the place and insulting the people who were á there with me.
1	Very intoxicated men who incite each other to fight.   I met a á vile smelling man on the tram who got closer and closer to me á till I got up, then he got angry.
4	Finding out my name on the list for English lectures.
0	While at school I had to write an essay for doing something wrong á that I didn't do. I wrote the essay about how I was mistreated and á got Saturday morning detention along with a few other kids, but á they didn't show up.
1	Finding out that old and useless practitioners of retirement age á will go to your English lectures and they do not understand á English.
3	When being illoyal (disloyal) to people close to me. Had such an á episode with my sister, who should have received my support and á attention.
6	I was ashamed of being laughed at by my colleagues when I failed á to answer a question in the classroom.
6	Each time the professor asks me a question in class.
2	The emotion came when I misbehaved at school and the Principal á threatened me that I was going to be expelled.
5	When I was transferred from Chichiri Secondary School to St. á Mary's Sec. School. I was happy at Chichiri as a day scholer and á had made a lot of friends. I was going to a boarding and that á meant parting with my friends as well as my boyfriend for the á first time.
6	As a young girl in form I, I wet my bed one day at the boarding á school and many girls came to see the person who had done it as I á had to take my mattress out that day.
6	A friend came for dinner with me at home. His parents are á ordinary people. My mother, however, used the very expensive á porcelain dinner-service and the silver cutlery. I felt very á ashamed.
3	Late for a lecture and therefore missed it.
5	When my first girlfriend an I left each other.
1	3 years ago I served in the army. Once a collegue denounced me á because of a delict, which is usually committed. I was arrested á for 3 days. I still detest this man.
4	When I passed an important exam.
4	When Christmas holiday started, I felt very joyful when I á finished my last exam.
6	When I was caught with someone's daughter.
5	My girlfriend wanted to breakup for an indefinite amt. of time. á She said that she couldn't commit herself fully to the á relationship without going out with other people. I was her first á boyfriend.
0	When I get home late my father scolds me and this makes me angry.
1	I found a big black beetle in my coffee cup. It was alive big and á it was moving its limbs.
0	In the University we were convoked to a stroll like a freshman I á was still innocent about the manipulation. On seeing the goal of á the exaltation to poor character people, I felt anger on feeling á myself mass of maneuver.
0	A certain Area Party Secretary came home in the morning and said á we had to leave our home and build somewhere and the reason á being that they wanted to establish a market. The Chairman knew á nothing about it and was very angry.
6	When I just took a shower with a girl down the hall. I felt that á I had let my devotion to God go out the window. Although nothig á happened I felt ashamed.
5	When I failed the entrance exam to IMEC.
4	After my marriage I received the B.Sc results by post, I was very á happy to learn that I had got very good marks - first class.
0	Overhear people talking about me and saying that I am stupid.
5	Father lost his temper at home because he was mistreated at work.
2	In a rather important exam, when they caught me red handed á copying.
2	Almost always when I go to fetch the results of an exam.
1	When someone whom I considered my friend, without telling me he á was annoyed, proceeded to ignore me for several meets with no á apparent reason.
1	When I read a newspaper article on a young girl who had been á raped and assaulted one night by several men when she was unconscious.
2	When I was operated on the knee and had to go through rehabilitation.
3	I do not study enough as I do not understand it properly.
3	I had to undergo an operation in Summer and so my family had to á stay at home during the holidays.  I felt guilty, above all á because of my brothers.
3	During a discussion I reacted very aggressively and so I made it á impossible to continue discussing.
5	My good friend misunderstood me.
4	When the result of the certificate exam was announced.  I was á surprised and happy as the result was better than I had á expected.
2	At the tender age of eleven a friend and I left a party and á proceeded to walk through dark and secluded streets of a bad á neighborhood to find a telephone (recent spate of Horror Movie á watching had occurred).
0	I experienced this when one of my friends reported to the á Headmaster that I had gone out for beer, whilst the information á was not true at all. So I had to fight the friend before the á Headmaster.
1	A drunk man had fallen in the street and he was shouting obscene á words.
0	While I was away for the weekend some friends went into my room á and played my very expensive stereo without asking me or my á roommate.
2	Alone in the house (late 8pm) I heard noises. Sounded like someone á was trying to get in our back door.
1	When a friend of mine got drunk and started to blame and scorn my á other friends and me.
3	[ No response.]
1	A gathering of a social sports club at which they proceeded to á show pornographic videos and then afterwards (when most people á had had quite a bit to drink) carried on in a very degrading, á unmoral manner - especially females exposing and flaunting á themselves with no shame or embarassment.
6	I felt shame when I discontinued my education for eight months. 
0	A good friend deceived me. Because of that little quarrel our á relationship finished, mainly because she was not honest. I was á very angry about that.
4	That was soon after the results of the interview which nearly á 9,000 people attended in all the three regions of Malawi. My joy á came after hearing on the radio that I was one of the people á selected to undergo the Medical Assistant training at the á L.S.H.S.
6	When I was a child my parents caught me with a pornographic á magazine.
6	I was very ashamed when I was neglected by a certain friend whom á I was thinking loved me very much.
6	I was caught stealing food at my aunt's place.  I had tried to á hide the food I had taken from the pantry while my aunt was in á the kitchen, however she went to the pantry and discovered the á stolen package.
0	Saw some young people fighting for seats on a bus.
1	I attended a ceremony in Denmark which is comparable to our á Halloween. They build a large bonfire and place a life size dummy á of a witch. The crowd cheered when the dummy burst into flames.
1	After joining my M.A in Social Sciences, I appeared for the first á semester exam.  I failed one of the exams, and when I looked at á my results I felt disgusted and then I got angry.
0	When my neighbours accused my brother of stealing their á rose-bush, I was very angry as he had not touched it at all.
5	The death of a close friend.
1	I was working in a classmate's house with a group. A girl began á to graze her foot against mine under the table.
6	I failed my Nutrition paper which was the paper ending the á course.
5	I had failed some subjects in mathematics.
3	I felt guilt to have come back from home without seeing my father. á When I went home he was at work.
0	During a lecture, a colleague who did not know anything about the á subject, got on my nerves asking silly questions.
0	When my girlfriend of two years told me it was all over.
2	I had a car accident.
5	A young, close relative of mine died, leaving behind a baby a few á months old.
6	Saw something stupid and ignorant happening in the countryside.
4	When I passed the first examination that I had to repeat.
0	In 1983 a sadist provoked my sister in my presence.  He tried á to force my sister into accompanying him to his place, but my á sister did not agree and so she was kicked and she fell down.  á There was a fight.
0	My little niece, who is very talkative, suddenly became very á naughty and began wetting her pants.  She did it one afternoon.
0	There was a cup final match between Limbe Leaf Wanderers and á Silver Strikers and someone promised to give me some money for á admission fee to watch this game. Unfortunately he did not give á me.
3	Lack of respect for my parents.
4	Won a prize for effort.
2	There was an earthquake for several minutes and I was on the á eight floor.
6	In my 20s - and was going out to dinner to celebrate a friend's á birthday. Her (older - in 30s) cousin, really wanted me to get á drunk cos I'd visited their (cousin & wife) place quite a bit, á but had always been very careful - brought up to believe in á moderation in drink (but not guilt repression etc). I mixed á drinking with smoking (which I rarely did) and got drunk and had á to leave the table to get sick in the loo, and later went home á and was sick again; have never felt so awful in my life. And I á didn't want to face or tell my other flatmates, or family.
1	[ No response.]
1	When I see all the putridness of people. The fact is the catarrh á and spits that whash the streets of S.Paulo.
1	I discovered some pornographic literature in a workmates drawers. á The literature featured pictures of naked women defecating on one á another.
5	When I feel I must be with somebody, to talk with somebody - but á I am alone.
1	My life-partner is going through a crisis (way of life, old-fashioned values) á and can only get out of it by talking bold decisions.  I have á noticed his cowardice and attempts to escape his problems by á drinking.  I detest his drinking and his being full of self-pity.
1	This happened when I went to visit my friend in Chelston and á found him screwing my girlfriend.
1	I wanted to take something from under my bed. While doing this I á felt a dead bird laying under my bed.
3	I once stole a shirt from the Department Store in which I work. I á have been promoted to work in a very privileged section of the á store. Their belief in my integrity makes me feel even guiltier.
3	A sense of guilt I felt once when I couldn't defend the á confidence my teacher had in me and thus discrediting him at a á concert.
6	A girl I was with yelled something out to this group of guys I á knew. It sounded really childish.
1	I feel disgust with some people when I see what they are capable á of, including lack of any dignity, when trying to find a seat in á the tram.
2	We were driving on a very dusty road at night and the driver á tried to overtake a very big truck only to find another big truck á parked right in front.
3	When I used to tell Mum I was going somewhere else than where I á was (going).
6	A patient, to whom I had given a powerful medicine, shouted at me á in front of many people.  I realized that he did so because he á was very ill.
1	When I was told that I had no right to control my lover.
2	My apartment has had three robberies in the last month. The guy á upstairs just got robbed making it the fourth.
4	The day the results of the university entrance exam was á published, I found my canditate number and I was very excited.
4	When I get a hug from someone I love.
1	Grovelling people.
1	I felt disgust toward meat when I felt sick with the steak after á a week only on meat.
4	When I knew about my first job.
0	A relative of mine had come to see my husband to talk to him á about a problem concerning his sister and me.  I was angry á because this relative of mine did not dare to speak to me and á instead spoke to my husband.  I got to know about it later the á same day.
3	I felt guilt towards my mother when I went to live on rooms in á Nijmegen where I study.
5	I felt very sad when I left home because I could not stand it any á longer. I do not regret it, but I missed my little sister very á much (and she missed me). These feelings wear off over time.
0	I visited a special education school. The headmaster applied a á policy of strict positive - negative reinforcement to the á children involved. Children who measured up to his standards were á made a fuss of - children who didn't were ignored.
0	Discussing with a certain person about a job I was getting and á that perosn was negative and pessimistic.
5	During the funeral of my grandmother, when I saw my mother and á other family members crying.
6	When people next to me play the fool.
4	When I was successful at my work I was full of joy.
3	A friend who was 22 years old, died of leukemia; I had not known á that he was so ill and therefore had not cared.
2	Motor failure on a boat outside Gottenburg when we were in heavy  á seas and the wind was strong.  As we could not steer the boat we á drifted towards the rocks.  We did not succeed in attracting the á attention of any passerby until 4 hours had elapsed.
2	I was driving and stopped at a stop light. I was planning to make á a right turn as soon as it was clear. It was clear on the left so á I started but a man was just in front of the car.
1	Once at a camp a classmate criticized me in front of others.  Now á I find that this classmate is very disgusting.
4	Walking along the beach with a friend (another girl), talking, á picking up shells, laughing, chasing seagulls.
1	"4-letter words on a TV programme (Roche) while we were á entertaining \conservative\"" relations who wanted to see the first á episode."""
6	I insulted my friend for a small reason and after time I realised á that I was wrong and felt ashamed; everytime I meet her I feel á ashamed.
3	I was entrusted with an object and while using it I handled it á carelessly and it broke.
2	I broke my Uncle's Radio player accidentally and so I feared that á he was going to cut me off from going to his house as well as á playing it again.
3	I hit my little sisiter on the head with a stone while we were á fighting.
5	When I realized that it was impossible for me to be as free as I á had imagined and that I could not do anythong about it.
0	I feel anger when things don't come out as I wish.
3	The fridge we had at home had a lock.  One day when I wanted á something, I unscrewed the door but unfortunately I was caught in á the act.
6	My teacher said that being university studets we did not have á any self-initiative or self-control.
5	Often a dog which is treated very badly by his owner comes to us.
0	My superior blamed me for some neglects at work in front of á others.  In fact, the task in question was not supposed to be á done by me.
3	One day at school I had quarrelled with a school-mate, and á ultimately I had hit him hard.  He, being physically weak had to á visit his doctor and remain absent from school for two days.
1	With a woman who had walked into my place of employment and á urinated on the floor in front of everyone.
4	I had a picnic with old classmates, we chatted and played games.
0	When a close relative is treated badly.
3	At a moment of affect I offended a person very close to me. He á had given me ground for that but it was a trifling in comparison á with the way I insulted him. A moment later I felt a sense of á guilt.
1	I had a class-mate who was rather stupid.  I did not like him á but I respected him.  When he tried to talk to someone, they á would not listen to him and I could not bear seeing this.
5	When I heard that my girlfriend was getting married to another á person, I felt very sad.  That day I did not eat anything and á kept thinking of her all day long.
4	Winning Queensland Chess Championship.
0	An incident occurred to me when I was going home with my á girlfriend. On the way, a man named Banda grabbed my girlfriend á in my presence. I was really angry with him and as a result I á threw stones at him and he ran away.
0	My parents did not approve my choice of a boyfriend (now an á ex-boyfriend).  He happened to be 13 years older than me and he á was considered completely unsuitable for me.  IDIOT.
0	When someone stole my bike.
3	I had to take care of the plants of a friend of mine for several á weeks. I watered them, but let them stand in a cold room so that á two of them perished.
2	I have a fobic anxiety for elevators. This anxiety is worst at á the moment when the doors have to open. I have it often in the á elevator at our university.
1	At a party my best girlfriend got really drunk and went off with á a guy she knows I really like.
2	"When I saw Russian roulette on TV. (obviously the movie \Deer á hunter\"")"""
6	My inability to assert myself positively in a group.
2	While skiing in Squaw Valley, I was riding up a chair lift and á right when the chair was above a sheer cliff of rocks, the chair á lift stopped and all the chairs sagged and everything seemed to á creak loudly.
0	When my father banned me from going to his sister's home due to á some misunderstanding between the two.
4	When I passed my Primary school leaving certificate and selected á to go to a Boarding secondary school.
2	I felt fear when I was young and left in my big house all alone.
1	Once I had to clean a lavatory which was obstructed.  It was in a á friend's country house and there was nobody there to help me.
3	My girlfriend and I agreed to go to the cinema. However I á completely forgot our appointment. I remembered it two hours á too late when I went to visit her.
3	While playing a ball game, I made a mistake and we lost the game.
0	A class-mate urged me to carry out a particular protest along á with him, and when the time came this fellow drew back while I á had to face the situation.
5	A and I were walking along the new Asia stairway to the Chung Chi á college for our lecture and I saw him with her.  He put one arm á around her shoulder and laugher brightly and joyfully.  I did not á dare and did not want to look, just walked by them quickly.  The á interest of talking to A disappeared and I just wanted to remain á silent.  But I did not want A to know and so I left him and went á to F.  I should have expected this to happen.
5	I failed a subject despite the fact that I had studied quite a á lot for it.
5	Power cut made me unable to listen to the songs sung by my á favourite pop star.
2	It so happened that while staying at anaunt's place I discovered á that I was afraid of sleeping in pitch darkness.  The room á which my sister and I were sharing had no light, and I would á refuse to sleep without having the light of the adjoining á bathroom switched on.
2	I was a bit frightened when it was found that there was something á wrong with my liver. However it turned out that it was not á serious and I need not worry.
3	I felt guilty when I mislead a person into thinking he was a á close friend when that person was more of a casual acquaintance.
3	[ Not applicable.]
4	When my brother came back home after staying in hospital. He had á undergone an operation which had been a matter of life or death. á When he came home I could see him smile for the first time after á may weeks.
4	In order to be admitted to my final examination, I had to pass á two examinations. As I had not studied very much, I resigned á myself to be left behind. Nevertheless I succeeded in these á examinations.
1	This is difficult, since I don't remember feeling disgust towards á anyone.
2	When a good friend of me told me one evening that she didn't want á to live anymore.
5	When I deeply felt that I could lose the person I love best á because of my foolishness.
0	When I discovered that the people I trusted most were talking á behind my back.
4	I am happpy when I get good results in the field of academics or á athletics.  
1	[ No response.]
3	One day I took my playmates to the river to swim and play. One á of them was epileptic so he drowned into the water. I felt guilty á because it was me who took them there.
3	I stopped my car in front of a pedestrian crossing as a child was á crossing the street.  The car driving in the next lane did not á stop and the child got hurt.  Had I not stopped ...
1	Spoilt, smashed and molded potatoes in the fridge, and having to á clean up the dish later.
3	I told someone that I still had a relationship with a boy á although it was finished already 3 months before. That person á seriously discussed several things relating that issue. Then I á felt very miserable because I had told lies.
3	I know that a certain person feels very lonely, and that she á always looks forward to seeing me. However, often I am too á busy to visit her, then I feel guilty.
2	I feel fear quite often but this feeling was very strong last á year when my husband was quite unexpectedly sent to the hospital.
2	When somebody broke into our home one night when my mother was á out, and my sister and I had just gone to bed.
1	To go through the underground way at suburb station of LAPA. Poor á people and the ambulants badly dressed up in a passage badly á kept.
2	This was at secondary school, a prefect framed up some case and á took it to the deputy head-master.  I was called by the á head-master and he threatened to suspend me.
2	I was attacked, standing in a doorway, by a pack of 5 dogs, á alsatians and farm dogs with my escape route blocked by a shut á fence.
2	Before the examn.
3	I was 4-5 years old when I hid the bicycle keys of a not very á good friend.  After a few hours I pretended that I had found á it.
0	I felt very angry when a mishanga seller robbed me of the á transport money I had to go to school.
2	While trying to board a train I missed the footsteps and fell á down on the platform.
4	When my father was saved from a severe work accident.
2	When I was ten I got shut in the school with a friend.  I had to á jump out of a window and cross a beam 10 metres high.
4	To be able to prepare myself better for an important examination, á I did not spend the nitht with my girl-friend but in the á students' hostel. I had not done that for months. The day when I á had the examn, somebody knocked at my door at seven o'clock in á the morning. My girl-friend who likes sleeping late, had come to á be able to be with me.
0	The editor changed the heading of an article that I had written.  á He considered the heading to be derogatory towards the person I had written á about.
6	A girl asked me why I didn't dance. I told her I was ashamed to á dance. I felt myself ashamed having to tell her this.
3	In the past I used to think that my mother was a very nagging á person.  When I started living at the hostel we had little time á to meet each other.  Whenever I went home she would take care á of me.  I gradually realized that what she had done was for my á own good.  So very time I saw her I felt guilty.
1	At a social event when none of the guests would help to serve á food or clear tables. It was all beneath them.
2	My mother did not come home till late at night (Ages ago). Anyway á if I don't know where my parents are and when they'll be back I á start thinking that perhaps they have had an accident and are á perhaps dead.
4	When I found out I had passed all of my university exams.
4	After having at last finished my master's thesis, I felt great á joy and relief.  I had been haunted by the thesis during the á whole of my studies.
1	On a trip to Santander a child sitting beside me fell ill and á started to vomit, seeing this made me feel very bad.
5	All my friends arranged to go for an afternoon snack and they did á not tell me.  They told me that they did not have my phone number á but I do not think that this was true.
3	I refused to lend my homework to a friend.
5	[ No response.]
0	When a man, a stranger to me, personally insulted a close woman á friend of mine in public.
1	"When I was watching some scenes from the Bertoluchi's film á \Twentieth Century\""."""
3	When I wished secretly and lied to a friend of mine because I á didn't want her to stay in my house on the beach (as she always á does), and wouldn't stick on me.
2	The day the results of the certificate exam came out.  I went to á school and at first I did not feel frightened.  By the time I á reached the fourth floor ( the results were being given on the á fifth floor) I found it difficult to walk and felt that I would á die.
3	After days or weekends where I did not accomplish the amount of á sudying that I wanted to because of more pleasant activities á which come up.
4	Always when I am well succeded.
6	I didn't tell my parents that I was going to Sofia. I told them á that I was going to a seminar. My mother knew that I was lying but á she didn't stop me.
3	I said something which was against my conscience.
6	I was once chatting with friends. Then some boys came and joined á us. These boys took all my 3 friends away and I was left alone in á shame without knowing where to go from there.
3	When I shirked the gymnastic lesson I met the director of our á school who asked me what I was doing.
2	In college, I started a discussion with the teacher referring to á a question I posed. I felt very unsure and I was afraid to fail.
5	When my grandmother died - having to see my mother weep.
0	At the weekend I wanted to be absent from school because of a á sports event, but my teacher refused to give me the day off á because he didn't like me.
6	After I had given the wrong answer to my students they pointed á it out to me and I had to correct myself.
1	I saw a septic, smelling wound.
2	One summer when I was camping with friends they devised and á elaborate plan to scare me by having our camp attecked by a wild á animal (one of them) and then convincing the campground was á the home of a satanic organization.
0	When my tennis match was interrupted because a kid cycled right á into the court.
1	I went out with my sister, her boyfriend and his friend. I did á not like this young man. But suddenly he overcame me and kissed á me. He was very strong so that I could not defend myself.
0	I once failed a test miserably and my friend did very well and á someone made a nasty comment while comparing me to my friend.
6	It was when my father caught me with a girl in dark corners and á asked me what I was doing there.
1	When my cat vomited and a worm came out which was still alive.  I á was forced to wipe it up.
3	Forgot to give a present to my little nephew.
1	I felt disgusted at my teams poor perfomance prior to league á play.
2	My 2 year old daughter disappeared in a moment of inattention; I á was responsible for her.
6	[ No response.]
6	I felt shame and I couldn't look into my teacher's eyes, after á not attending his lectures.
3	Talking about someone behind their back.
2	When I was dreaming that I was being chased, in the upmost of á horror the door of the closed felt down synchronicaly with the á dream scare.
2	Before knowing my marks I was not sure that I wanted to go to á that class.
2	I felt a physical fear, if I can call it this way, today, in the bus where á I was sitting on the first seat. While turning the driver didn't á see the tram which was making a dash towards us (coming from the á side I was), and whose driver intended to cross in yellow á light.
6	When inadvertantly I found myself in the ladies room.
2	While taking a short cut through the Vasa park, I was surrounded á by three people who tried to steal my money.  I was scared and á was saved only by the appearance of other people.
4	When my term paper was evaluated.
4	I sensed a strong feeling of joy when in the plant, at my working á place, I got a message that I was admitted as full time student at á the Higher Agricultural Institute.
1	I stayed at the Coast for a weekend with friends. My brother came á to drive me home, but was rude, and in a hurry to rejoin his á friends. I was embarrassed because the family involved was á extremely nice, and hospitable to him.
5	My grandmother died, and my mother called me one sunday morning á in the Autumn.  The way my mother told me about it, I hated her á at that moment.  She sounded as if she had been waiting for the á death of my grandmother.  I had lost a person close to me.  I á felt guilty too as I had been bad to my grandmother of late.  I had not á remained calm when she no longer understood everything so well.
4	When I passed the B.A exams with first class results.
5	When my half brother became seriously ill with cancer and died á later.
6	When I was twelve I was babysitting some children but I did not á act very responsibly and one of them was injured.
2	I was walking to my car at night and thought that I was being á followed.
2	I was camping with a friend of mine and we spent the night in the á forest.  I could not fall off to sleep and could clearly hear á noises from outside (steps ?) approaching our tent.
5	When I saw the pictures of the draught in Etiopia.
2	Before getting back the results of a test in school, when I had á worked very hard and was worried about not succeeding.
4	Blank.
3	It happens sometimes in connection with certain persons with whom á I have frequent relationships but nothing special.
5	I felt very lonely, was very dissatisfied with myself when I á realised that I could feel very jealous of other women because á of my boyfriend.
3	I had planned a trip to the South during Easter, together with a á friend. She was very sorry when I changed my mind and decided not á to go after all.
1	I felt it today when the bus driver shouted rather indecent words á at a man without any reason whatsoever.
0	When a discussion resulted in an insult, which in my opinion, was á not justified.
2	I was in form five at the boarding school and my friends and I á had gone drinknig beer in the nearby village.  And we were caught á red handed there by a form master.
2	When, as a child, I was nearly knocked down by a car.
6	I told a friend that I was going to a party and he would not á enjoy himself if he came along.  He understood  that he would not á have fitted in and there was something in that.
0	Failed to be elected to be a class leader.
1	It was when I read a newspaper article on the future and they á foresaw that we would be eating frog-burgers by the year 2000.  á An illustration showed a frog between two pieces of bread.
1	When I was teaching a student started making silly remarks in á class.
2	After my boy-friend had beaten me for the first time, I always á trembled when somebody knocked on my door or when I heard steps á coming nearer.
5	I remember that when my mother died the day was sad and every á time I think of it I am saddened by the loss of my mother.
6	When, as an adult I have been caught lying or behaving badly.
6	When I accused unjustly a person of robbery, who proved me the á contrary, almost caused a public fight.
4	[ I can not recall one.]
1	At the butcher's I saw an animal which had just been slaughtered; á blood was dripping on the floor.
6	When I inadvertantly entered the ladies room and met some girls á on my way out.
0	When I realized that the person I was courting hadn't been really á by my side for a long time already. He had deceived me and I let á him deceive me.
4	Unofficially I was informed about my results of the final á examination of the secondary school. A teacher wrote them up for á me. When I went outside, I started crying with joy.
1	It happened that one of my best friends just took my shirt á without my knowledge, I hadn't put it on for many days and I was á short of clothes.
4	Aticle published.
4	It was in 1983 September when MCE results were being announced on á the radio. When I heard my name that I had done well I just kept á quiet. I was so happy that I couldn't even talk.
5	The death of an animal we had reared.
6	When I boxed my child's ears.
1	Saw someone acting in a false manner in public.
4	I was accepted by the Chinese university.
1	When I see people who have no sentiments.
5	When I feel lonely, perhaps because I have to study a lot and I á am shut up in my appartment.  Nothing happens in particular á because there is no time for anything else.
4	It was the first time that I gave a birthday present to my friend. á   She wrote me a letter as she is my girlfriend.  The content of á the letter was so sweet that it made me feel very happy.á 
6	When I tried to hide a fact from a person for irrelevant reasons á and considered such an attitude childish.
3	[ I can positively say that I have never done anything that made á me feel guilty.]
3	Insulting other people.
4	A meeting and a conversation with a woman (somewhat elder than á me) who considers me as her child (she also has one child of her á own). Last two years I lived with her (no relationship).
4	Doing unexpectedly well in an examn.
3	I said nasty things which I did not mean to a friend.
3	I dreamed that this girl and I were cuddling in bed when my á girlfriend walked in. I really love my girlfriend so I felt á guilty and sad. I know that this is a wierd example but the dream á and the feeling was clear to me as if it had really happened.
6	One day in class, the professor asked me a question concerning something á he had been explaining.  He was very close to me (beside me) and I á had no idea what to answer.
4	The day the Real Madrid team of basket ball qualified for the á final at Athens.
5	After a meeting ended we started talking about when we would á have the next discussion ( I had many tests the coming week and á could not have a meeting in between, I thought that they would á understand this as they had always done).  They did not á understand my problem and thought that I should not have so many á other activities.  Their reaction made me burst into tears.
2	Taking a chemistry midterm.
5	At my grandfather's funeral - My grandparents virtually raised me á as my mother was a solo-parent and had to work.
5	The disease and subsequent death of a close acquaintance. Sadness á was accompanied with feelings of powerlessness (I also á experienced sadness in the situation described under guilt).
3	I was cold to my sister without meaning it, just because I was á upset and frustated.
3	Saw a blue film in a cinema.
5	When my dog was stolen.
6	I allowed my then boyfriend to touch me, if only briefly.
0	My life-partner, who was drinking more and more, spoke about á kicking the cat.  He had never done anything of the kind, but I á knew that he would do so one day, without thinking about it.
2	I was given a wristwatch by my first girl and after two days á another girl of mine also gave me a wristwatch.
4	I was studying in the library and a class-mate told me that she á had obtained a grant to work in the library.
0	When I saw my younger sister being bothered by a boy she did not á know.
2	When I was nearly attackad by a man who had been chasing me.
1	When I had to plunge in a swamp of fetid and stagnant water.
5	While walking through an old mining area, I unwittingly disturbed á a wallaby which, in its resultant flight, accidentally fell down á a deep mine shaft. On investigation it seemed uninjured, but it á was impossible for the wallaby to get out, and also for me to get á it out of the shaft. To prevent its suffering a slow death, I á shot it.
3	When I stole money from my mother and she asked me later if I was á responsible.  I never admitted it.
1	Once when I had started to write a paper, there was a phone á call for me.  I had to go downstairs to receive it and after the á conversation I discovered that all the information had á disappeared from my mind.
1	I was driving along and saw this young guy urinating into the á gutter, in broad daylight.
5	My father died. I was away at the time and did not know until two á days after.
2	When going to the exam.
6	[ No response.]
4	I wrote a difficult Exam at one time while in my Secodary School. á When the results were announced on the radio, I came second out á of 80 students hence I felt joy.
5	When my wife died in hospital, she was pregnant and had undergone á an operation.
1	When I saw an accident where the man lost his head.
2	I was at home and we were sleeping when we heard some robbers á breaking into our house.
4	My sister had a daughter. I saw the baby for the first time á through a pane of glass and she looked at me.
5	When my little brother passed away mysteriously, at least from á what I was told about it.
6	China cannot give your lectures bigger place and sound system.
4	The situation in which I felt happiest in my life was when á I was with the person I love for the first time.
4	After my graduation exams I was waiting to get admitted to a post á graduation course, however the situation was not very favourable á for me and I was upset.  Suddenly, Bombay university offered me a á seat and I landed up in Bombay for my post graduation studies.  á This happened last year and was very pleasant for me.
6	When I failed some tests my first year at CAL.
0	We were in a disco and the evening was not at all pleasant.  á Despite my not knowing why, I was angry with my companion.  I let á him feel my bad humour as I cannot hide my feelings.
5	During an informal talk with a friend when we talk about the life á of another person, a common friend, that is in a situation of not á being able to assume certain problems that he decided to solve, á that is, she herself suggested the problems and decided to solve á them but didn't get it until the moment.
3	I wrote a bad letter to someone concerning our relationship which á we created ourselves.
1	When I was a child, one day while playing, I fell up to my waist á in mud.
1	The emotion came to me when a certain girl who was not polite to á her mother hit her sister severely.
4	[ During inter-rail-trip, after troubles, I met my little á sister.]
1	Saw a real party leader.
0	My girlfriend one day went out and promised to be back at 6.00 pm á however she first arrived at 10.00 pm, without a message (we had á to go out that evening).
4	Accepted by the college football team.
0	Before the department meeting my friend ate a dish that I had á prepared for this meeting.
6	In 1972 I failed my Examination because of my own crooky á behaviour of dodging from Examinations.
6	It was my father's birthday party when I was asked to bring a á tray of tea and other drinks.
3	My mother always evokes feelings of guilt in me. For instance á when I miss the last bus I know she will be concerned for me and á stay awake till I arrive.
6	I felt ashamed when I had not attended a class and the teacher asked á me the reason for my absence. 
6	I lost my driver's licence because of speeding.
4	My boyfriend returned after a long absence.
6	I told my primary teacher I hadn't done my homework as my mother á was in a car accident. My teacher rang that night to see how my á mother was - she was fine i.e. no accident !
3	When my parents quarelled over something I had done and which was á wrong.
2	When I drove to Stockholm for the first time and drove off the á Stora Hissingen road at the wrong exit.
0	A friend of mine promised to come with me to the cinema but he á didn't come.
0	When I was dancing with a dame at a social, one of my friends who  á was interested in her came and took her away from me.  I was á really angry with him then.
3	I had fixed a meeting with my classmates and I missed it as I was á tired.  Besides everyone at the meeting was a stranger to me and á I did not want to make friends with them.  Whatever the reasons - I  á felt guilty.
5	Insulted by my mother.
5	Years ago I fell in love for the first time. as natural for every á school-girl I was day-dreaming. Later (after 3 years) we left á each other. No one was to blame but I felt deep sadness. Even now á I remember about it quite often.
5	I felt sad when my father was sick.
3	A borrowed car broke down while I was using it.  It was not my á fault, nevertheless I felt guilty.
0	"I get angry when someone imputes on me things I never can do, á naturally negative. Servility, \connections\"", impudence, traits á that get me mad."""
4	When I felt that my love was returned.
2	When I was travelling by tram, I tripped and fell against the á door.  I thought that I was going to fall out.
6	Finding out that the university police was afraid to stop the á foreign students playing loud music (China's shame). 
2	When I was sitting in a car next to a man who was masturbating.
4	When I received my TE Score and my acceptance from University - á it had been a goal since I left the bank a year earlier.
4	I was admitted to the University and a niece was born to me.
1	A too eager approach by a dirty drunken person in a bus.
5	When my son was diagnosed as having CEREBRAL PALSY, at age 5. He á would have to endure so much labelling, stigma and discrimination, á even though his case was relatively mild.
6	One morning after breakfast I was still not satisfied.  My nephew á (a small boy of 2) had not eaten his breakfast and just when I á was taking a bit of his share someone walked in.
6	I liked a boy and I would feel shy and then blush.  The more I á wanted to avoid it the more I blushed.
0	[ It irritates me when people talk about me behind my back.  I    á prefer people to tell me what they have to, on my face instead á of talking behind my back.]
3	When I realised that I had rejected a boy, who was fallen in love á with me, rather bluntly four times.
5	It was last September when I felt very sad. It was when I heard á that I was not selected to study in the University of Malawi.
4	I fell over head and ears in love with someone who appeared to be á in love with me. it made me so happy that I could hardly sleep á and eat for one week.
6	I made a joke about the rat of a boy. I compared his rat with a á sausage. I told the boy he had a delicious sausage.
6	The same for guilt would apply.
4	When I met with friends that I hadn't seen for a long time.
5	I felt sad after having had an argument with my boyfriend.  I felt á that he did not understand me and that there was no point in á carrying on with the relationship.
1	Finding that a girlfriend of mine was a prostitute and had been á seeing many others during our relationship.
1	[ I feel disgusted at people who talk negatively about a person á without knowing the person well.]
2	In Sweden, a friend and I lived in an appartment owned by a Finn. á  One day, this man came back to the appartment heavily drunk á (hashish and alcohol).  He was quite dizzy and he broke down, and á I could not foretell his reactions.  However, nothing happened.
0	I was enjoying the company of bird life while I was eating lunch á in a park when a group of people began throwing sticks at some of á the birds - for no reason other than the satisfaction of seeing á them being scared away.
0	At an office an application that I had made was turned down á because of a scrupulous interpretation of the rules.
0	My brother told me that a person (whom I know) had insulted him.  á I am very fond of my brother, and as he himself can not get angry á or hurt, my protectiveness was aroused and I got angry.
5	A sudden doubt made me run for a long time in a rainy autumn á night. When I reached the intended place I saw my beloved in á another man's arms. A sudden blow, grief, I cannot qualify it, it á is painful for me to remember about it.
6	When I entered a bar looking for a friend.
1	Several years ago I stayed with friends in the mountains for one á week. We lived in a hut and had to cook for ourselves. One day my á friend did not succeed in preparing spaghetti. That dinner was á terrible - nevertheless we all ate rather much and had an á improper and unsavoury conversation.
1	I was disappointed by a girlfriend when I visited her at her home á in Woodlands.
1	[ No response.]
0	I had planned to study for my mid-term exams on a certain day and  á my room-mate called me to ask me to go out for a stroll.  I tried á to make an excuse so as not to go out but she refused to listen á to me and insisted that I go out with her.  I find it unnecessary  á to talk to her anymore.á 
6	When I began to date, the first gestures of affection made me á feel ashamed. Note: for GUILT go to record n¦231
4	China winning the Asian Olympic games.
2	[ I was thinking about death.]
0	When the morning newspaper has not arrived.
4	When my brother was selected to the University of Malawi (the á Polythecnic). I was very excited and I rejoiced due to one of our á family members qualifying for University level at long last.
3	I felt guilty when I skipped a two hour practical class I knew I á would miss out on more information which I did not know, but I á couldn't cope with going.
5	When my elder brother died.
5	I ran a race for the CAL track team and I did terribly and then á the coach said that I should sit out for the season. I felt á really sad because I wasn't going to be able to run. It was á something I always had done and now I couldn't do it anymore.
3	When I have sometimes been unfair to my parents, when I have á happened to deceive them over some trifling things.
3	It was my mother's birthday. My father and I used to buy a á present together. However, now I had bought something together á with my girlfriend and I forgot to ask my father.
3	"I \picked up\"" a girl and I thought that I had misused my á position and authority over her as there did not seem to be any á realistic possibility of continuing the relationship."""
6	When my natural parents name would show up on papers and not my, á what I call real name.
3	Flirting with other girls while I already had a very good á relationship. When there are problems in my relationship, the á flirting increases as does the feeling of guilt.
5	When my aunt passed away in early 1982.
2	As a child, one evening I had read a novel about ghosts and I had á thus spent a sleepless night as I kept feeling that there were á ghosts dancing around me.
4	The day I learnt that I had been admitted to the university.
1	[ No response.]
2	My boat running into another boat.
0	One day, when I was a child, my grandmother shut me up in a room.
3	I lost a conference because I hadn't got in touch with a certain á person to inform her that I would go with her. I thought she knew á what I wanted.
2	When I went home alone early in the morning, I had to go through á a wood.
0	"Some classmates said I did not do enough social work. Therefore I á was not elected as a \Tree Good\"" student."""
5	When one of my closest friends failed to make it to the third á year of university.
1	When I saw a woman who had been run over by a train, just off á Kafue.  The woman had been cut to bits, there was blood and        á splinters of bone every where.
4	A friend came to tell me that her father invited me to go on á holiday with them in Benidorm otherwise I could not afford to go á on holiday.
4	Meeting with two of my friends I had not seen for 15 years. They á were special people to me.
1	A pig in the well from which we drink.
1	Class leader told me to collect homework for him.
5	Two little children (5/6 years old) begging for money, and noone á gave them money.
0	A few monthe ago, when my brother's wife told me that I had bad á manners.  To make matters worse she did not let me use their á telephone as she only allowed people of her own tribe.
6	"I tried after months to begin talking to my boyfriend again. He á ignored me. I felt I had lowered my pride and became his á \doormat\""."""
4	Relatives visiting me.
3	When I betrayed my lover, she told me something in confidence, I á felt at the time I had to relay the information back to the á person concerned, as I felt the situation volitile, did this á without telling my lover, she felt like piggy in the middle, as á she was not directly concerned. Maybe you could call it gossip I á felt different after I had slept on it. If I had waited, thought, á NOW I would not have done it.
4	When I got home from a pleasant trip abroad, I got to know that I á had been accepted at university.
6	When ditched - divorced by husband.
6	[ Do not remember any situation of that kind.]
3	I had promised to do a task for someone that was close to me, and á from the outset I knew it was important that I do it, but when it á came to it, I let them down.
2	Staying alone in the biology building after the dark.
0	When someone accuses me without reason and is not willing to á listen to me.
1	In the evening, while I was watching TV, my little brother came á in and started eating food he had brought from the kitchen while á I was trying to concentrate on the program.
6	Emptied a bucket of water in a hospital.
0	I gave some personal information to a friend of mine, and he told á it to some others who were implicated in the affair.
5	At one point in a relationship, my boyfriend was seeing an old á flame more than me. At our confrontation tears were shed.
4	I was told quite unexpectedly that one wanted me to become the á vice-chairman of our student organisation.  I was really á surprised and joy was the first emotion I felt, though behind it á there was worry - how shall I succeed ?
3	I failed to keep a promise and this had a serious effet on someone's á problem.
3	Not being able to help my friend to do homework.
1	I feel disgusted since I am unable to cope with all the wordly á affairs as I spend much precious time to pursue my hobby and á to be admist the people I love and long to be with.
0	When a colleague asked me for help at work, despite the fact á that he had more time to do it than I had.
3	I had promised myself that I would do one good deed every day.  á One night I saw a beggar whose muscles had been atrophyed.  I á walked passed him thinking that he was feigning.  Later I á realized that he had not been pretending and I had a feeling of á guilt as I had not kept my promise.
3	Hurt someone's feelings unintentionally.
1	Saw a man dressed as a woman.
4	When a student of mine (at music) performed and played remarkably well.
4	When I saw my 16 year old sister at home after having waited for á her all night, not knowing where she was.
3	I have chosen to put my son in a private school were the á examination marks are low.  Every time that he gives me his term á results I am left with a sense of guilt.
6	My cousin and I were at the farm and at night we drunk like fools á and made a lot of noise.  We had drunk two much of wine.
3	When I robbed a loop in supermarket.
1	During the Chinese lessons a student often showed off. Moreover á he misbehaved and dressed very badly.  So disgusting !
5	The thought of having to read a boring book of 400 pages in á English.
1	When I saw a film where a black was rapeing a girl while another one was á filming it for a pornographic movie.
5	At my grandfather's funeral.  I remembered that the thing he á liked and respected most was earth, I thought that he had á attained what he wanted and was not separated from it any longer.
1	I felt the emotion when I entered a certain ward in the hospital á to visit my relative who was sick.
5	My brother wanted me to buy a flute with him but I didn't accept á afterwards I regretted it because he became sad.
2	As a child, when I was at home alone, I felt in an indefinate á manner afraid of the death of my father and mother.
5	It was a complex situation concerning a relationship with a á boyfriend, I had broken the relationship for some reasons. á Meanwhile, as I felt it, I had most sorrow.
2	When I learnt that the girl I had impregnated was in hospital and á was on the verge of dying as she had refused to accept the á responsibility of her pregnancy and had wanted to commit suicide.
0	When I discovered that my girlfriend was going around with á another boy.
5	Death of a parent.
5	When my grandparents moved to another part of the town.
2	Fear when fulfilling my obligations on my first night fatigue á duty as a soldier.
4	This happened when I was in the 10th standard.  The paddy crops á were in a bad shape as it had not rained and there was no water á in the well, so I was in a very sad mood.  I came to the á conclusion that I would ignore the paddy field, just 12 hours á after this it rained for one hour.  This was a very tense time á and the rain brought me tremendous pleasure.
6	In our flat the bath-tub is in the kitchen. At the beginning I á had very intensive feelings of shame when I had a bath and people á were in the kitchen.
6	When I was in lower six I joined an interview group to á interview the general public.  One of my friends in the group á lost her purse and she was very nervous.  Five of us had to go á another place so we left her, and planned to see her later.  Then á I heard her describing how her purse looked.  I realized that I á had seen her purse on the floor and had not wanted to do any á thing about it. 
3	When I lost something that was valuable to my sister.
4	The begining of my relations with my current girlfriend.
3	I didn't attend lectures.
4	One evening, I was with a group of friends having a talk.  There á was a very trustful and joyful atmosphere.
0	When I learnt that a friend of mine had talked about me to á another friend and had said wrong things about my abilities and á attitudes.  I was very angry.
3	When a close classmate failed a year.
5	After the loss of a close relative.
2	Falling off a cliff in the mountains.
2	I was on a trip to Phillipines during Summer and I was staying in á a hotel.  The room I was staying in was very silent and had very á dim lights.  The last night I felt frightened and lay awake - I á could hear some sounds around me and dared not open my eyes - I á waited for dawn.
3	I was trying to have sex with my best friend's girl but she did á not agree to it.
3	When a friend of mine was beaten for what was my fault.
5	I was driving near my girlfriend's house and I decided to keep á going because it was late and I would be back in the next few á days anyway. The next day she was killed in a road accident.
0	I learned that a class-mate had given a list, of peolpe who help á each other in exams, to the professor.
3	For the sheer pleasure of it, I quarelled with my boyfriend who was trying  á to be especially kind to me.
1	When my fellow classmates were involved in a quarrel.
2	Speaking in front of a large group of people.
0	I get angry when people disbelieve me or misunderstand me.
4	In the army, my result at the shooting exercises got á me a three day furlough.
0	A tailor ran away with my skirt.
4	When my wife gave birth to a baby boy - my only son to date.
0	When I got caught in the pouring rain last Thursday and did not á have a raincoat on me.
3	A friend came to visit me and I was not there.
0	South Korea cheating for gold medals.
1	Someone smoking on Electric train (Electric trains are á non-smoking) with alcohol smell coming from person.  
2	A workmate and I had been antagonistic with each other for some á weeks - he had reacted violently to my criticisms of his work á standards.
5	Years ago on Christmas Eve I felt very sad because I realized for á the first time how I missed my father who had died at Christmas á Years ago.
5	After training for an Australian championship competition for a á year and then injuring myself 2 weeks before the competiotion.
1	I felt disgust when I saw a drunkard vomiting very offensive á matter.
5	When the result of a project work was treated nonchalantly á intead of being criticized by the teacher.
4	When I had to undergo the final examination of secondary school, á I lived together with a girlfriend. We both were afraid to fail, á but it appeard that we both had passed.
1	A friend of mine goes out with this guy. She sleeps with him but á is quite happy for him to play around - as well as herself.
6	When I arrived too late at a meeting of mentor (the night before á the introduction of novices on the University start).
6	When I lied to my wife and told her that I was going to the á Copperbelt on a buisness trip, she later found me in a hotel with á a girlfriend.
1	I realised that someone was insidiously attempting to shit me off á I was disgusted with him for doing so, because I afforded him á with no excuse to do so.
1	Through the media and their presentation of a kidnapped child who á was raped.
1	Being in a Malaysian city with my girlfriend coming out of a á picture theatre - seeing her rush up to a taxi that a very old á sick man was trying to get to. Seeing her take over the taxi.
0	A friend called me and told me that she wanted to come and see á me. She lived in a village at 50 km distance fom my home town. á Next morning I expected her but she didn't arrive. As I got á impatient I called her but her parents told me that she had gone á skiing. I was very angry because I had cancelled an appointment á to be able to see her.
1	When I was walking in a field which had a lot of manure.
2	One year, when I went to a camp, I was chased by a dog.  I tried á hard and finally managed to escape from it.  My torch suddenly á went off and we talked about ghost stories and I thought that á there were ghosts.
6	I was walking outside the union refec after rain when I tripped á and fell.
4	Being in love for the first time.
2	Fear of the turn that the examination paper would take as I á lacked confidence.
0	I felt much anger when my fahter interferred in my relations with á another person whom I liked very much, ending something that I á adored.
4	Third highest grade in the class and the best answer given for á one question (the question was graded by the professor and he á indicated he liked my answer).
2	When I had my first oral examination after a long time; á especially one day before the examination when I had the feeling á that I had not studied enough and had not enough time to make up á for it.
3	I had promised to say goodbye to a person who was going on a á trip, and I did not turn up.
5	[ The same as in guilt.]
4	On my birthday, when a very close friend sent me a huge bouquet á of flowers.
6	"My grades. When my parents say, \How are you doing at school, á getting good grades ?\"" I say, \""Great, just fine !\"" Actually, I á feel ashamed about myself."""
6	Yesterday while playing volley ball, there was one person extra    á and somebody had to out.  A mess worker and I were the  á last ones to arrive and we had arrived at the same time.  á Rightfully one of us had to opt out of the game, as I was á delaying leaving the mess worker opted out saying that I should á play.  I felt ashamed of myself.
3	When I fought with my friends.
3	When I was young I stole something from a shop and got caught, á then I was taken to the police station and my parents had to come á and get me.
1	[ No response.]
0	"I felt anger of a friend when she met \a date\"" and become nervous á and pest as she always gets when she meets him."""
5	Breaking up with a girl.
2	When climbing up the stairs to the top of a ski-jumping hill.
1	I thought that the guy I had been associating with for over a á year went out 2 or 3 times with a high school girl whom he claimed á not to like.
5	When my grandmother passed away.
5	I had received bad news informing me that grandmother and á grandfather had passed away. The first one to die was my á grandmother and after two days grandfather died too.
5	When one of my cat died of a disease.
6	Lying to my cousin about the form five examination fees.
0	Discussion with my mother about the way to educate my children. I á felt anger against my mother.
3	When I was rude to my mother and got angry with her.
5	Disappointed love. The girl made an end to our relationship while á I thought she was in love with me.
6	Making an unexpected talk with a professor in the canteen. This á made me shy.
0	When a boy, who was drunk, insulted me in front of a crowd.  I á was stopped from punching him for it.
3	One day my mother forced me to eat more and I refused, the next á day she served me more rice and mutton pieces than usual.  When I á saw this I got very angry and scolded her, and refused to eat.  á Later I felt guilty and asked her to excuse me.
2	My daughter was 2 yrs she went up to a colt tried to hit it. It á turned on her and kicked her over the heart, sent her flying á through the air. I left my mother and sister to deal to her as á they are nurses. I felt I didn't want to know if she was going to á die, it was just too much.
1	I met my best friend's husband with a prostitute.
6	Some times I was ashamed of presenting seminaries or even to á speak in class.
0	In 1982, I was annoyed at an uncle who was drunk and was beating á up his old father.  He claimed that the father was responsible á for his guardian's failure.
2	When I entered the operation theatre and underwent a difficult á operation.
6	I was unaware that I had walked the streets in torn trousers.
0	I was angry about several drivers who showed an aggressive and á dangerous driving habit.
3	When a patient had died soon after I had told the guardian to á wait outside the ward.
4	China winning the Asian Olympic.
5	I arranged with a friend to go skating the next day. He asked me á to wake him up by telephone at twelve o'clock because we had come á home late in the morning. Next day I called him - he was not at á home. As something like that had happened to me several times á before, I came to the conclusion that one cannot rely on anybody á and I felt very sad.
4	When I was offered a place in the university as a full time á student.
0	My girlfriend does practice and therefore leaves me alone at á night and in the weekend. In addition, she is very busy doing á several things. So we don't see each other often.
5	When my mother and father separated (it was a brief separation á and they are together now).
2	I was on the Inter Rail in Naples alone. After an evening in a á restaurant I was going back to the hotel when a prostitute á approached me to sell herself. I refused but as I carried on á walking I felt that I was being followed by someone.
5	When my grandmother died.
2	When my B.A results had not come.
3	I broke a glass of glycerine at the Z.C.B.C store in Ndola.
6	Truely, I got very ashamed when my brother was sent out of á Business Machines Limited Company due to improper handling of the á office equipment in Sales Services.
5	I felt very sad when a friend of mine failed the final exam and á she could not be accepted at the institution of learning.
4	Winning a tight tennis match. One set to play, and the team was á behind by 3 games. We won the last set 6-2 and won the match by a á game.
4	The birth of my daughter.
4	When I got home from my job, I found a letter from the university á telling me that I had been admitted to begin my studies.
2	We went fishing some 5 or 8 kilometers off the shore of Lake á Malawi. Before we could settle down the lake became very rough to á the point of threatening our lives.
6	I was ashamed at myself for having shouted at my daughter because á of my marital break-up and the unfair way I was treated.
2	When I was caught by the police and was kept with a group of á delinquents, which added to my fear of being shut up.  I was á afraid of the people near me and the future consequences.
1	A person that eat half of a cockroach in a cake without knowing á it.
6	When criticizing something about a person and then realizing that á the person whom one is talking to is similar.
3	I am the secretary of an association, and during the last meeting á I forgot to take the minutes.
6	Saying something quite rude, but in jest, about a photograph of á someone, but it didn't quite turn out that way.
2	When I woke up at night to find a fire spreading towards the bed á -rooms.  I was very frightened as I realized that I faced death.
2	A few weeks back my daughter had very high fever and I was scared á that it might lead to brain damage or convulsions.
1	"Seeing a friend \making love\"" to a high school girl. I á accidentally was dragged into this room where the happenings had á occurred. I was disgusted at the reality."""
1	When I listened to a conversation of friends talking about the á power of money.
1	I saw a film about the nazi concentration camps during the war. á After the film I felt disgust.
3	I experience a sense of guilt as my middle son cannot express á himself like other children, neither verbally nor in writing.
6	It was when we were beaten or lost the football match by 5-1 and á then I scored the third goal to my own side.
3	I often feel guilty, and it has to do with other people, e.g. if á I haven't visited my older relatives for a while.
1	When I learned that a relative had been spreading rumours about á me.
2	When I was young I had gone to an old lift and played with the á antique lift.  The guy discovered me and warned me, I was very á frightened.
3	I was of the opinion that 12.00 pm was too early to be back at á home after going out, so I stayed away longer, knowing that my á mother would be worried.
3	When I was young - 14, I pinched from a store and was caught.  á The store then contacted my parents.
6	My mother and my grandmother were talking about one of my á grandmother's friends whom I hardly know. I gave some deprecatory á comments on him whereupon my grandmother told me that the man had á died recently.
5	A friend of mine, who had repeated a year at school once before, á did not pass the final examination and had to take it again half á a year later.
6	I once proposed my own niece whom I did not know but I discovered á after she was my girlfriend.
3	When quarreling with friends.
5	A case of unrequited love.
4	Bulgaria won a football match against France.
0	When my boss enrolled in a course to satisfy his own ends - to á trample on his associates.  I have the misfortune to have one of á my superiors in my course.
5	Finding out about the university does not have enough foreign á currency to buy the yournals in your reference list.
0	My trouser's zipper was open when I was at a public wedding.
3	When I was baby-sitting at my cousin's place, I tried to have a á pleasant time and did not really take care of the child.  I do á not care very much about children.
2	After seeing a horror film - Omen.  I could not sleep at night  á even though I closed my eyes.  The last scene of the film kept á coming back to me, I seemed to hear the girls in the film á shouting at the devil.  The devil did not have any expression on á his face and I thought that he would choose me.
0	When my friends tried to discriminate against my friendship with á certain other friends which they thought was improper.
1	On school, during a fancy fair, there was a stand of amnesty á international. There I read (for the first time) a description of á the tortures of a woman, what they did to her.
2	I was afraid when my first boyfriend threatened to make an end to á our relationship because he didn't love me enough while I loved á him very much.
4	Winning a close volleyball game. (I'm on the intercollegiate team á at CAL)
2	When our school was raided by the pupils of the boys secondary á school who beat us up.
4	"When a girl I wanted very much, said \yes\"" and fell in love with  á me."""
4	When I heard that I had passed my end of first year exams and I á was ready to enter 2nd year because I felt I had failed as they were á very hard.
3	My grandmother wanted me to help her. I was driving a tractor á pulling a dead branch off a tree. I told her she didn't respect á me.
4	When I met my boyfriend and we discovered that we shared the same á ideals and goals in life, and that we could share all our á feelings and thoughts and felt that the world's not so bad when á you have someone really close to share your life with.
2	Going to take my driving test.
2	Fearing the use of power or reprimands when I belong to the á minority.
5	When I heard the last regulation of the socialist govrenment á concerning pensions.
2	At primary school the teacher caught me cheating during a á dictation.
0	I had left a student newspaper of the Chinese university on the á table of the library.  It had disappeared when I came back.
2	As I was in a ward one man died and I was instructed to watch the á last offices. But this was my first time to see a dead person - á fear came.
5	Thinking about friends overseas.
5	In 1977, my grandfather, to whom I had a very close relationship, á died.
0	A friend was unpunctual, we wanted to prepare ourselves for an á examination.
0	I entrusted a friend with the delivery of some money to my á father, however he misused the money.
4	It was when I was selected to go to a Secondary school to start á form I.
6	My mother told my uncle who is a Roman Catholic Priest á (Redemptist Father) that I had been living in a de-facto á relationship for three years. He was very, very angry at me.
4	I received an assignment back, and got an A+ grading.
2	I felt fear of the purest kind after a car accident.  The á incident and images of horror kept coming back to my mind.  I á wondered what could have happened to my sister, my friend and me, á though nothing very serious actually happened.
0	Can't remember exact example.
4	I was very happy when my scholarship to continue studying at UNZA á was approved after it had been cancelled.
4	When I was selected to study here at UNZA.
2	An inter-college basket-ball match.
3	I had to decline an appointment which had been very important for á the other person. For this reason we even got into trouble.
6	"A man asked me: \May I sleep in your stairway?\""  and I answered á \""No\""."""
6	Finding out China is backward in science.
1	This happened when I could not get into the school I had á initially wanted, and ended up doing something I had never á thought I would do.
3	I experience feelings of guilt because I do not study enough.
3	[ No response.]
2	I was seven years old and swimming outside the flags at the Gold á Coast. I was caught in a rip and taken out about 100 m. I á couldn't swim too well, but an older friend (17) swam out and á saved me.
4	My friend came to see me after she had stayed abroad. I waited at á the station.
6	Walking on the street passing by an air duct, my skirt went up.
4	Being invited out by a person I wished to get closer to. He á telephoned and invited me to go out with him the next night.
3	While quarreling with my brother I broke the glass door of the á cupboard and a china doll.  We were scolded by my father for á breaking the door but we did not tell him about the door.
3	I felt guilty when I was robbed of a friend's radio at Lilongwe á bus depot after promising that I would keep it safe.
2	When my father's home was to be broken into by thieves who had á guns.
3	I borrowed a piece of music of someone and I always forgot to á give it back. That person wrote me a letter asking me to give it á back. I did so and I told him an idle story why I kept it for so á long.
6	I went to study in a public library but I didn't know it well. I á got a book and wanted to study hearing music. Then I went to a á place were I could do it, but when I passed by a door a bell rang á and a man came saying that I couldn't leave with the book.
6	At a concert an old man arrived and began to danse, sing and do á silly things.
3	We owned a shop and I used to serve in it occasionally. We á sometimes took lollies out of the stand and Dad caught me one á day.
3	My parents appreciate very much me and my boyfriend coming and á have dinner with them at Christmas. However we decided to visit á his parents. My mother was rather disappointed.
5	When my grandmother died.
3	I felt guilty because I had not accomplished a thing as well as I á had wanted to.
0	When my brother went out with my new shirt that I adored, and á returned it dirty with grease.
2	At primary school I was accused by some boys of being in love á with a certain girl in their class so they had to shout and beat á the girl and the matter was reported to the headmaster.
0	"I feel anger when I see a \parent\"" beating and punishing his child á in the street. Recently I was a withness of a similar case."""
5	I felt sad when my first boyfriend and I left each other. It was neither á his fault nor mine.
6	News was spread that I had been found doing sexual intercourse á with a small girl. At first this annoyed me but later on I became á ashamed because many people seemed to believe it.
0	I was very hungry and just wanted to start eating when a friend á called me who usually talks for a long time. I was angry because á I was prevented from eating.
2	I was skiing with friends and they wanted to ski-jump. I did not á want to be left behind, so I braced myself and followed them.
5	Finding out that my grandfather had died. He lived in England and á I had not seen him for 10 years.
5	When I received the S.Y.J.C results, the marks I obtained were á not up to my expectations and I missed admission in engineering.
0	I was angry with a person who behaved terribly at a ball á offending her relatives.
2	I felt afraid when I smoked maryhuana for the first time in my á life with a lot of friends in the middle of the street at day á brake.
2	[ I do not recall one here either.]
6	When a group of friends began to make critics about me.
1	Seeing a pornographic movie in which animals were used.
2	The week before I entered to army, when we were being selected. á During 5 days I had to pass 10 hours a day waiting for the á answer, which at last was the worst. The fear of being convoked, á of hearing the fated phrase, was constant.
4	When I told my girlfriend a joke openly and frankly.
3	[ No response.]
0	We hitch hiked our way back from a town rather drunk.  We were á dropped in another town which was unknown to us.  I needed to á urinate, so I did it on a wall which turned out to belong to the á military headquarters.  They arrested me and made me pay a fine á of 500 pts.  We had to go home on foot (6 km) since it was too á late for anyone to give us a lift.
2	When I am travelling by car and have to meet an oncoming car á while overtaking.
4	I was for the first time on a brigade this year. At that time my á sister was to bear a child. I was mad with joy when I opened the á telegram from my parents and learned I had a nephew.
3	I didn't keep a promise I had made to a man, and in this way I á lost his esteem and confidence in me. I caused him a lot of á trouble.
1	When a boy had continued to use foul language and swearing in á front of a group of my friends.
6	I was at a children's camp abroad. The people (the leaders, my á coevals) were very king to us. One night we smeared our foreign á friends with tooth-paste while they were sleeping and then we á roused the whole camp by our shouts. Later I was so sorry. I á didn't utter a word for two days, then I went to apologize.
4	Eating biscuits and drinking Milo (Chocolate energy drink made á with milk and usually drunk warm) with my friend at College. We á get on really well, don't withold any feelings about each other's á friends and are pretty good at cheering each other up when we are á homesick.
5	When I found my baby whipped by my Auntie. I was really sad and á up to this moment my sadness is still on.
3	When I met another person I began to go out with him, and my á boyfriend (with marriage accorded) met us together he did a great á scandal, he broke the engagement and I began to go out with the á other, and it didn't work because my mind was all mixed up.
0	When I missed the tram after having run for it.
4	I was in the living room at home with an ex-boyfriend, it was á nearly a year that we had separated, during the talk he began to á remember our courting and gave me a long kiss.
5	When I received a message that my brother was seriously ill and á was in hospital.
1	A sour looking man was beating his thin dog in Remuera.
1	I felt disgusted when I was in a restaurant which didn't appear á to be clean and orderly. (I do not like to be in unclean á environments).
1	When I heard that a woman of my community had aborted and got rid á of the foetus by throwing it in the drain.
6	On a social occasion, I noticed that I reacted on the basis of my á autonomous nerve system (I could not help it).
6	I talk too much, cannot keep things secret. I promised a friend á not to tell something to anybody. Neverthless, I did, and she got á informed about it. I felt very ashamed.
6	I was ashamed when my friend and I were cross with each other á till we apologized to each other.
5	I received a letter from some friends, who do not live in Madrid, á telling me that they would not come on holiday.  I had arranged á everythiing for them.
4	When I was accepted for further education, here at the á university.
1	I took a psych. experiment with a totally unappealing gay man as á the experimentor, some homosexuals are funny or cute, but this á guy was disgusting. Plus the experiment was about gays too.
1	To be kissed by soembody I didn't expect to.
3	Telling my parents that I did not get into a good university.
2	I lost my way on a trip in the mountains.
4	I got a letter from my best friend, whom I had not heard from for á a long time (a good letter).
1	When I was taking my girlfriend out, she seemed to have taken á her time.
2	Going to the examn not well prepared.
4	After my girlfriend had taken her exam we went to her parent's á place.
2	Just before I started my study I had to move, I was very afraid á to be left alone and that I could not manage it.
5	When one of my closest friends died unexpectantly.
3	I could have passed the last exam of the public competition, but á I failed as I had not studied.
5	When I didn't get a certain job at Lillehammer which I wanted á very much.
1	Doing this pointless questionnaire.
5	[ No response.]
0	I had an appointment with someone at a certain time. The other á person didn't appear.
5	When my best friend died, at the age of 16.
2	When I was just to be divorced.
4	When you told everyone in the last lecture you will do all á lectures again in English and everybody can come (not only á English classes)
6	I did not do the homework that the teacher had asked us to do.  I á was scolded immediately.
0	At an examination I got a bad mark just because of a small á mistake. When I went to the lector and wanted to talk about that, á he did not listen to me but sent me away.
3	I went to the cinema with my friends, without telling my mother á about it as I had been to the cinema the day before also.  When á she asked me where I had been, I lied.
3	At secondary school, one of my classmates lost her locker key.  á During a class I saw two other classmates holding a key and á talking secretly.  I do not know why I suspected them, also á another classmate supported me.  He remembers that these people á had only one key in the key-ring, this had seemed strange to him. á  Besides another classmate said that he had seen them selling á books at a book-shop and they should not have had such books.  I á told the teacher and the person was caught.  He had sold the á books and was forced to quit school.  I found that I had not á helped him as he stole later on also.  I felt guilty
1	I saw someone that I thought I knew repeatedly drunk. I do not á like to be around alcoholics.
3	When my brother ran away from home and I thought it was because á of my continously scolding him.
2	At the railway station, while waiting for the last train at night á I noticed that a drunk young man was appraching me in a á purposeful mannner.
1	My girlfriend came home after a business dinner at the most á expensive place in town drunk as a skunk. Whats more she drove á home and couldn't remember doing so. I was disgusted by her state á and her actions.
5	When I first heard that Tage Dannielsson had died.
2	Before going to the dentist.
5	Last year when I worked during the Summer holidays and studied á at the same time for an examination I had to repeat; my boyfriend á went to Greece for a holiday for a month.
4	Emotional reassurances by spouse.
6	I felt shame at the hurt I caused to my family especially my á parent father, shame of hurting people emotionally. A misconceived á self-blaming that didn't do me any good. Shame at being myself as á I am.
3	I knew I had to take an exam very soon but yet I couldn't start á studying. I also knew it was very imprtant to succeed the exam á this time.
1	At work when I did not get the full co-operation of my colleagues á to complete an assignment.
5	When a friend left me and went back home for good.
3	When my friend ended up pregnant by a gentleman whom I considered á to be good and faithful but he ended up neglecting her and not á bothering about her.
4	Joy of giving birth, and of sharing that joy with my husband. á Moments of complete happiness and feelings of so much love.
1	Every time I meet a certain person. We cannot get on well á together, we dislike each other.
2	When I went up the stairs in a high, dark house full of shadows, á passed a door and had the feeling that someone or something was á behind me, although I knew I was alone.
2	Held under water by a large wave and thought I was drowning.
5	When the girl I loved turned me down.
2	When I received the higher level exam results, I mistook the á grade E in mathematics for a grade F and I was shocked.
0	At the end of my holiday job I got less money than was due to me á and nobody mentioned anything about that.
5	Summer, heavy rain, storm - I was standing with my face stick to á the window: the childhood, something was going away forever this á summer, I was leaving my home, I was going to study in another á town, for the first time I was leaving my parents, friends, I had á to manage myself, a long and loved period of my life was over - I á was crying.
1	When employer made a pass at me whilst I was at work.
2	Walking home at night after university - part of the way, there á are ano lights and I am walking down a thoroughfare with the á thouth of no one hearing me if I have to scream.
0	The landlord had selected a new lodger on her own, while we used á to do that it was not what she had done, but how she did it that á made me angry.
3	When my mother returned from a holiday, I told her a lie i.e my á father had brought another woman home while she was away.
2	When I broke my leg I felt fear.
6	Forgetting an important appointment.
6	When I realized that I was directing the feelings of discontent á with myself at my partner and this way was trying to put the blame á on him instead of sorting out my own feeliings.
3	I lost my self-control and raised my voice at a child.
5	To fight with a sister and to know that she doesn't care.
4	Watching China winning the Asian Olympic games.
4	When I passed the B.A exams and my parents allowed me to carry on á my studies and do a M.A. , I was very happy.
0	Being made to look like a fool by a girl.
0	When my room-mate locked up the keys of my room in our room after á I had told her that I was  only in the bathroom having a shower. á  She left and I had to do without supper.
5	I felt sadness when I notice that I'm not important for a á determinate person. We do many things for a friend, and we see á soon after, that he doesn't do anything for us, nor thinks of us.
2	In the dark an unreal figure formed by a shadow.
2	When I sit for examinations.
5	When the girl whom I have lusted after expressed reciprocal á feelings and then days later changed her mind.
4	When the bank let me borrow some money this winter, after my á grant was spent.
0	In a tram, the ticket seller was commanding, taking the role of a á leader, trying to emphasize her non-existent authority with undue á strictness towards a good-humoured drunk who could not find his á ticket at once.
6	As part of the assessment I had to speak on a subject in front á of the class. I was not really prepared and I was just reading á the stuff I had on a piece of paper, when some of the students  á asked me something I could not give them an answer.  I felt á ashamed as I had not prepared the topic.
3	One day I was chatting with children at home. Then I took a lump á of soap and gave to one of them pretending that it was a sweet. I á thought the child would realise that it was not. Unfortunately he á did not and he put it in his mouth.
0	When I learned that my brother had spoilt an LP of mine.
0	A friend of mine uses butter instead of oil when he is cooking. I á am always angry about that, because it is an unnecessary luxury. á Recently we both were cooking and he wanted to use butter again. á When I had already put the oil into the pan, he poured it out á again and put the butter into the pan.
2	I was at the cinema with my sister and her boyfriend.  A man á sitting beside me started to stroke my leg for a while, he left in á the middle of the film.
5	I am sad because some relations to friends are not very good.
0	I was accused of having done something, which I hadn't and got á very angry.
4	After passing my Malawi Certificate of Education Exam and being á selected to Kamuzu College of Nursing.
1	When I learnt that my offer to study at the university had been á withdrawn  and so I would not get hostel accomodation at UNZA, á even though I registered as a student later.
6	I didn't do an important job and it had an adverse effect on á other people.
3	At a party, several comments were made about the personal á situation of one of the people present.  She was rather affected á and uncomfortable.
1	A man spat on the wall of a house.
2	We were camping in the mountains, and a friend and I went for a á walk.  It was getting darker and darker and we were not sure of á the right way back.
0	When my father asked me if I was a communist, at the same time he á made it clear that I should no longer see myself as his daughter.
4	When a friend of me came for an unexpected visit.
5	When I left all my friends at school (break up) knowing we would á probably all go our separate ways, and none see one another for a á long time.
0	My bicycle was demolished.
5	One of the greatest sadness was when my grandfather died, because á I loved him very much.
3	Against the will and without the approval of my parents I went á for a few days to my boyfriend in Germany.
6	Some time ago we had a tournament in our tennis-club. For á tactical reasons I was chosen to play against a much weaker á player than I am. Although it would have been enough simply to á win the game, I defeated him extremely. This would not have been á necessary.
4	On December the 28th I was filled with Joy when I was told by my á bosses that I had been selected to attend a course at the á Lilongwe School for Health Scienced in Lilongwe.
2	I had been watching a triller a dark night in the country and I á had to go the outside toilet on my own. 
6	I said something especially stupid which I did not mean at all.
3	When my friends and I were caught with our girlfriends outside á the school grounds when I was at the secondary school.  We were á caught by the headmaster.
0	I walked in on a teenage patient of mine (I work in a hospital) á as he was going through my office drawers and he had removed á money from my purse.
4	When I passed my B.A exams.
3	A lonely, neurotic, shy girl lives nearby. She has expressed a á wish to meet me, I have however avoided her (turned down an á invitation) as the crisis my partner is going through uses up all á my empathy.
3	One day I found an incontinent man in the ward. This patient had a á guardian who couldn't give him a bath. So I just left him like that á but felt guilty until I went back to give him a bath.
3	Promising someone to do their job and then not being able to do á it due to transport troubles.
6	[ I do not remember when I last felf ashamed.  I do not usually á feel ashamed of what I do.]
0	When I got a low grade in an administration course.
6	I felt ashamed one day when my teacher shouted at me in the á presence of my boyfriend.
5	During my holiday I met again a friend who had tried to commit á suicide. She had just left hospital, her lips were trembling, she á looked miserable.
0	A male, Honduran acquaintance of mine despised my opinions.
6	I felt ashamed of feeling sorry about myself when I passed á through the situation of being betrayed by my girlfriend.
0	I had made an appointment with three friends. We had to go out á together. When I arrived at the place, the other persons weren't á there. I became very angry because I thought they were gone á without me. That, however, didn't appear to be the case.
3	Someone had to do a lot of efforts to make something work. With á my help he would have finished much sooner, but I wasn't in the á mood to help him.
2	When I dream of anything terrifying I used to have fear for the á rest of the day that the dream might come true e.g., being beaten á (or eaten ?) by a snake.
4	When I was selected at TISS X.
6	I have always felt ashamed for some people's behavior to their á too old parents. I have felt hurt and shy when they have left á them to the mercy of fate.
2	When my little sister was sick at home and I thought that she á would die.
5	When I came to know that my feelings for someone were not á reciprocated.
4	When I got to know that I had passed the university entrance á exam.  I thought that I had done one of the exams badly.
6	In a Mathematics class, the professor asked me a question and I á gave the wrong answer.
4	When I got a letter from home.
2	When  first came to CAL I went to a rally on Sproul and I later á learned that the rally was conducted by the Moonie cult. They á were taking pictures at the rally, so I was afraid that they á would circulate the pictures and then kidnap people. I did not á know how the cult worked. I was scared.
3	When my brother had to spend all evening repairing a gear-lever á that I had broken.
0	I arrived in Vienna in the middle of the night. I asked for some á silly information - as I realized myself afterwards - and the inquiry  á clerk reacted in a very arrogant manner.
2	When I was a child I was afraid of big dogs. One day when I came á home a big dog was laying in front of our door. I was so á frightened that I did not dare to enter the door and I waited á until somebody passed by.
5	My mother kicked my surrogate father out and he in turn did not á care for the dog, Afthur, he bought for the family. His lack of á concern lead tho Arthur's death on the freeway. I loved Arthur á like a brother. He was easy to talk to.
6	When I failed my grade 7 exam at the first attempt in 1975.  My á father and the entire family thought that I was finished in life. á  I really felt like hiding.
1	Disgust is a feeling that I have never experienced with peoplie á but , on the other hand, it has been with repulsive animals, i;e á snakes on T.V.
0	When a friend carelessly broke and object in my parent's house á and did not apologize, or pay, or anything.
1	When I study my butt off for a midterm and still get an average á grade.
3	Not helping other people to do their homework.
1	In a sexual experience with an unknown woman where after the á sexual act I only could go away without looking backwards.
1	I am disgusted at the number of second year students who are á pregnant illegitimately.
5	When my grandmother died, her life was heavy and her last hours á were terrible.
0	I was stood up for a date function by someone who I really cared á for.
6	I was dishonest to my boyfriend concerning something that is á important to our relationship.
3	I once drank too much alcohol and became very ill. This was in the á presence of my friends.
5	When I couldn't go for a trip with my friends in a holiday.
5	I have high expectations for my future but if I pursue the á subject in this manner I will not attain this.
4	After a difficult exam. When I had not hoped to take it and had á got a high mark. When you present someone with something and he á feels glad.
6	At school I was bad in mathematics. Although my teacher had á admonished me to do my homework, one day I had forgotten to do á it. When my teacher noticed it, I blushed and was ashamed to be á rebuked in front of the other pupils.á 
4	The day I heard that I passed the high school exam.
3	I entered the hostel this year.  My mother was ill and could not á move and needed people to look after her.  Every week I left home á to go back to school, I felt guilty.
6	When I as a Pakeha (white) new Zealander, was just as racially á prejudiced as other people whom I had condemned.
4	This happened when I went to check my first year results, I had  á thought that I would fail and I found that I had a clear pass in á all my courses.
2	That someone would discover whom I really love.
5	My mother left my father for his best friend, and he moved to á Papua New Guinea. Despite the fact that I am closer to my father á than to anyone else in my family, I had to move in with my á mother, and say good-bye to my father, not knowing when I would á see him again.
1	I once saw a programme on TV describing how certain wild life á films were made and was disgusted by the treatment of certain á animals in this particular programme of the polar bear.
2	Assaulted by drunken neighbour.
1	There is a certain person, whom I only have seen. He makes me á cringe, feel disgust.
5	When a good friend with whom I had an intimate relationship made á clear that he didn't want to continue in the same way. He choose á his girlfriend (also a friend of mine).
0	When a car is overtaking another and I am forced to drive off the á road.
6	In a fight with my girlfriend in a luncheonette where everybody á stared at me in such a way that I had to leave it.
0	I locked myself out.
6	On Christmas eve I went to a classmate's home with other á classmates.  The next morning when I came out of the toilet she á said something and I did not understand what she was saying.  á When she pointed at my trousers I discovered that I had forgotten á to zip them up.  I rushed back to the toilet but by the time the á others had guessed what had happened.
2	When I was a child, I heard the floor cracking and I thought á there was a burglar in our house; I hid under the blanket and á trembled.
2	When I was six years old we were on holiday in France. There was á very heavy weather then.
0	I got angry when I learned how short a time we had to prepare for á the term examinations.
3	Not accepting hints of intimate relation from a girl.
4	When we took out an 84 year old woman for the evening and had á hamburgers. She described the evening out as her happiest night á out in 20 years.
6	My friend told me in a fairly loud voice the blunders she á committed last night.
2	Having quarreled with a boyfriend, he threatened to leave me.
1	Friends who torture animals.
2	In the real sense of the word I experienced fear in my first á months in the army. During my first night of duty. The cause for á all this was a bear. I became panic sticken (may be for the first á time) and even forgot that I had a gun.
3	I promised to fulfill an errand. Later I understood it was á impracticable. The explanation I gave was accompanied by a sense á of guilt.
6	[ No response.]
0	An old lady slipped and nobody helped her.
2	When a big angry dog put its snout on my arm and had I made one á movement it would have bitten me.
5	A child, 9 years old, died in a stupid way.  He fell from a place á which was 1 metre high.
3	When I stole something.
1	When I saw a drunk man urinate upon himsellf and he seemed to be á thoroughly content with it.
3	"I felt guilty when I \stole\"" the boyfriend of a friend of mine."""
1	I studied medicine for several semesters. I was always disgusted á when we had the dissecting-course. I cannot understand why some á persons like this course.
5	When my boyfriend openly let me down, preferring another girl.
5	After a disagreement between my parents, when I was alone with my á father and my sister, the aggression continued, when my father á tried to put me and my sister against my mother revealing facts á that had happened in the past like a talk between my father and á his mother in law where she told him that my mother was not quite á save.
3	My brother and I were at home watching a TV program when I á started to tease  him and in this joke I hurt him without á knowing the seriousness of it I went on. He got angry and gave it á back to me. At this moment I felt anger at him but knowing that á it was my fault.
0	Told by some people the class leader only choose his friends (not á true).
2	When I walked to church with my roommate, a bum told us to call á the police and he started following us.
0	Too many people in TV room, I was not able to get a seat to watch á TV.
3	Some boys talking about nicknames of the lecturers, and I was too á afraid of them to stop them.
1	Girls dressed like foreigners in the university.
4	"When I worked as an \au-pair-girl\"" in London, I received a call á from a good friend who told me that she was in London too and á wanted to see me. I was very glad - after that call and á especially when I saw her."""
1	Once when I was studying for my examination, I was asked to do á some work which was unavoidable.
5	My grandmother died.
1	Because of the examination I had to study night and day.
4	When I was admitted to the Institute. I had problems with many á people about my applying for this institute and I decided to á prove that one can pass excellently without visiting any á preparatory couse. That is - I proved what I could do on my own.
0	Despite our good performance and excellent results the management á refused to meet our demands.
4	I had been away from home for a long time and when I came home I á was delighted.  It was wonderful to see familiar, dear people and á I was rejoycing in advance.  I had been feeling very lonely.
4	Listening to the opening bars of Tchaikovsdy's symphony No.2 á fourth movement at my sister's wedding.
3	When someone is accused or punished instead of me.
4	When I first passed a job interview.
3	When I sided with my mother in a quarrel she had with my father á before they briefly separated.
3	My friend did not do well in the examn because I did not help á him.
3	Two timing - going out with 2 guys at once (secretly).
4	Hearing Fran Wilde introduce the Bill.
6	During a party I overheard a conversation about china. When I á wanted to give my opinion one of the people came out to be Chinese á and his opinion was right of course.
1	When I failed an exam.
0	A conflict with a pupil.
3	When I secretly tried smoking for the first time, being 12 years á old.
1	One day I was in the countryside with several friends, and we á began to eat figs, after we were all full we noticed that all the á figs were full of worms.
3	When I do or say something inappropriate which hurts people close á to me.
1	Disgusted with boyfriend's mother - her overpowering, á over-protecting and selfish attitudes.
4	When I was selected to the university of Zambia.
4	When I was selected for the university.
3	When I had beaten my auntie.
1	When a skunk invaded camp.
0	When I wanted to talk to someone I liked and whom I have been á told likes me (by his brother and even by himself) however he á avoids any confrontation, and is vague.
6	During a lecture six students (including me) were asked to leave á the class as we had not prepared for the lesson.  I felt ashamed á and angry.
3	When a crawling child got burnt because of my negligence to keep á the child away from the fire.
2	I felt it when I sat for my exam in anatomy.
5	I phoned two friends and was not able to arrange a meeting with á either of them, so I had to change my plans.
3	It was on January 1st 1985 when I accidentally broke a Fanta á bottle in a certain bottle store in Zomba.
5	My cat died painfully and slowly.
6	I was supposed to go out with my girlfriend one Saturday night, á but I got really drunk with some friends earlier that afternoon á and evening. So, I totally forgot about going out with my á girlfriend. She showed up the next day, and that was when I á remembered.
2	When I almost walked on a snake.
2	Before an exam in logics.
2	I had a dream in which I was an African elephant.
1	I once saw an elderly lady who was not properly dressed.  She was á wearing a transparent dress, such things are not sopposed to be á seen in African society.
4	When I was making music together with my friend. It sounded very á good and we were very satisfied.
1	I was looking at a one-man show on television. He told very á disgusting things so that I started to be disgusted with it. á (Later on it proved that this was his intention).
5	When my first boyfriend left me. I tried not to let him á understand I felt miserable.
4	When I was admitted to a Language school. On the day when I was á informed by a message and my parents congratulated me.
6	A conflict with a pupil and there were probatory teachers á present.
4	I felt glad when I took the rather difficult organic chemistry á examination.
4	When I heard that I had passed Primary School Leaving Certificate á and was selected to go for Secondary education.
6	Cheating in a minor geography exam at school.
3	Could not buy a reference book because I got up too late to cue.
3	I had parked in a corner, and when I was going out I didn't watch á if another car was coming and went out. The car that was coming á was obliged to stop suddenly. It didn't crash but for a little.
5	There is a boy who I love very much. I asked him to have dinner á with me, but he refused I don't know why he didn't go with me, á but I felt very lonely.
3	Making a sexual pass at my cousin with whom I have a very close á personal relationship.
3	When I had an argument with my grandfather the day my younger á brother was born.
3	I am not good enough to join any team to play sport for the á class.
2	Being alone in the room at night.
3	I called off a relationship with one girl so I could see another.
2	Fear of thief.
0	When one teacher unjustly gave me zero in a test saying that I á was cribbing.
6	Not finishing homework.
0	"My nephew is a deaf and also \hyperactive\"" boy. I had been á responsible for looking after him for a full day, and was very á tired. Then he suddenly grabbed a knife and stabbed me in the á leg. I got so angry that I didn't feel any pain."""
6	When I was taking an exam in grade 5.  The examinator found me á with a note-book and accused me of copying, All the students á laughed at me.
2	Finding out about people can go mad for social reasons.
1	The behaviour of a colleague of mine, which doesn't correspond to á my norms of behaviour.
3	As the only person in my family into academics, I ought to have á looked after my younger (and only) sister better, with respect to á her education and life experiences.
4	Getting a good mark for a subject I had worked hard at but á expected only a moderate mark.
3	When I had promised to do some washing for my mother and I did á not do it.  She did it herself despite her being ill.  I felt á very guilty.
5	I really became sad when mother passed away while I was very á young.
6	When some of my close friends and colleagues talk about me and á my work and say that I am the brightest student of the college.
3	When I inadvertantly made some close friends and relatives feel á bad.
5	When I am alone in a room with no contact with anyone - á loneliness drains me.
5	My cut was run over by a car. After searching for a long time I á found her lying in a kerb. I was rather shocked and angry with á the driver.
4	"Arriving in New Zealand as a teenager - first overseas trip - á something \exhilarating\"" about the change of scenery etc."""
4	After the term exams I happened to meet a person that I respect á and of whom I think very highly. It was nice that although we see á each other rarely he had not forgotten me.
6	I am ashamed at myself sometimes when I am working with á handicapped people and don't wish to be seen in public with them.
6	This was when one of the Clinical officers scolded us in the á hospital on how to make beds but we did not deserve to be á scolded.
1	When I met my boyfriend with another girl.
3	Not giving up something for Lent.
4	When I saw a good friend again after not having seen her for a á long time.
6	In the classroom we discussed with the teacher. He told me things á that affected directly in a negative way my job and my behavior á in the classroom in front of the other pupils.
6	I felt ashamed of my body in spite of knowing that it is more or á less beautiful and also knowing that my boyfriend considers me á beautiful, but this was only in the beginning.
0	When the person I'm having the affair with won't talk to me in á public.
0	I was very angry when one day I went to see my girlfriend I á talked to her and could not answer back. She was depressed for á reasons which were not known to me.
1	Slaughtering of animals.
1	One day, when I was twelve years old, my brother took some slimy á substance swimming on the surface of a pot of vinegar made of á cider and threatened to throw it at me.
0	Because I am the Captain of a basketball team I usually organise á a roster system so that everyone in the team can have a turn at á doing either a duty or a ref. A lot of the time the girls can't á be bothered or just forget - I usually have to fill in.
1	Some people not cueing in the dining hall.
1	I felt disgust after watching a picture on television about á torturing political prisoners in India (this happened in the á India of Indira Ghandi).
0	I once was accused of falling in love with someone's girlfriend á which was not true because the girl was just a friend of mine.
6	When I failed Psychology examination when most of the students á passed.
1	When I beat up my brother in order to control him and make him á obey my parents orders.
0	When I heard that my step-mother had treated my mother in a wrong á manner.
4	When I unexpectedly received birthday greetings from a person I á like.
3	I didn't give back in time some money that I had borrowed. My á friend relied on them.
1	I was disgusted to discover that my girlfriend of few weeks was á already fooling around with another guy.  I was disappointed as á the guy was a rogue and I respected my girlfriend.
0	A friend of mine played a joke on another friend over the á telephone.  This friend, crying, called me and I got very angry á and made the other person apologize.
5	Saw a father beating up his small child.
5	When I quarrelled with a very close friend of mine.
5	When my grandmother died.
4	Scoared a goal in a football match.
4	"As the time to get the results drew near I became more and more á anxious.  My friend called me and said, \ You have passed.\""  My á heart was full of joy."""
4	Going to a friend's wedding and seeing many of my old friends á whom I had known before I moved to a new district five years á previously.
4	I phoned a friend of mine to ask her for news about the marks in á an exam.  She told me that I had passed.
4	This came in when at one time I met a girl who I didn't expect to á fall in love with me. Fortunately I tried my luck and she accepted á my proposal. At the same time she was giving me a lot of money á which was just like a miracle to me.
4	My girlfriend who had been very far away from me came to my á place. She saw me and ran after me. I didn't know that she had á come. I couldn't see her. She held my shoulders standing behind á me.
4	When I was acceptted as a student of psychology.
1	Disgust at a girl I know for continually feeling sorry for herself á and never acting positively to do something about her problems.
2	When a man rang the doorbell and wanted to enter the house with á violence. I was alone at home that moment.
4	I met my friend and he gave me a wonderful present as it was my á birthday.  I enjoyed having that present.
5	My sister, whom I like very much, asked me for a favour which I á refused her for some flimsy reason. Some time later I felt sorry á for that and something like sadness.
0	"Recently a good friend only called me when he needed something. á He never said \please\"" or \""thank you\"" or any other kind word."""
6	When I did not inform my friends of my forthcoming birthday.
5	I lead a rather secure life.  The only thing I can remember is a á song from the nineteenth century which is against alcohol.  Both á the melody and the word (although naive) effected my emotions.
4	I received a letter from a friend whom I was missing
1	The same event described under FEAR - in the bus a man sat beside á me, with his trousers open and holding his penis.
5	When I had to leave home to go to some other place to study.
6	"Like guilt - the most ashamed I have ever felt was when I began á to feel guilty about having sex with my boyfriend when it was á only \the thing to do\"", and not really an act of love."""
1	It was at a comsomol(??) meeting, the last one because we were to á graduate. The way one of my fellow-students behaved made me feel á disgusted.
3	We had promised, with a friend of mine, to take our friends to a á restaurant and after having looked for a place for hours without á finding one, and not being helped by the others we had to give up á the idea.
4	I was filled with joy when I heard that I had passed my Secondary á school leaving certificate exam.
1	"A certain girl asked me what my major was and when I told her á that it was P.A she started criticizing it saying, \I hate that á course.\""  She just shows off in front of other people."""
3	Did not get up early enough to watch my class football team á playing against another team.
3	A parking fine.
6	I borrowed $ 20.00 from a friend and paid him back much later á than I had originally intended.
1	I felt disgusted about a teacher who had rejected all that was á human in her. She refused to accept the flowers we gave her for á the eighth of March and asked for a foreign parfume instead.
4	When I met my mother after months of absence.
5	Finding out that life span in China is shorter than in the West.
2	I received a phone call from a high school friend whose younger á sister studied with me at the University and gave me a lift every á moning. She was going to get married to a guy whom I knew too and á who had died when he fell from a building, I was afraid to lose á somebody since I had already lost a brother in an accident.
3	I crashed my father's car.
0	I was scolded by my mother for no reason.
1	At a night club watching little tarts trying to earn a living.
0	A female classmate was always late for meetings which were for á the homework and not social gatherings.  We were very busy and á the deadline was close but we had to waste half an hour or an á hour waiting for her as we could do nothing else then.
3	[ When excuses are necessary and I get out of doing it myself.]
5	When I didn't succeed to enter at the University, I felt that the á college entrance course sistem prejudiced me, that my integrity, á and effort weren't corresponded.
6	When I decided not to out any longer with a girl whom I liked á quite a lot.  This made me feel low for a some time.
5	When my grandmother passed away.  We had been waiting for it as á she had been sick for years, but when it happened I found it hard á to accept.
0	I experience this emotion quite often but the day I was most á angry was the day I got pulled up for something I had not done.  á It happened during my school days, I had not spoken a word in á class but the monitor had written my name on the board.  So I á had a remark in my callender which I had to get signed by my á parents.  This remark resulted in me being spanked.
3	I didn't visit a very close friend at the hospital and some days á later he died.
5	Death of the family dog.
1	The day I was forced to use a public convenience place in town.  á It was so filthy that it really made me sick.
1	When my younger sister visited me during the school holidays and á told me that she would not go back to school because she was á pregnant.
5	When my sister left home to go and live with her husband.
2	When I almost drowned myself in the municipal swimming pool that á I use to go almost not excaping.
5	At rejection / being ignored by a loved person held in great á esteem.
6	When I failed the twelveth standard exams I was ashamed at á having to see my parents later.
5	When my grandmother died; I had a stronger relation to her than á to my mother.
2	My first public appearance in front of a rathe big audience.
2	When in a car accident where car was total wipe off (wipe out, or á write off).
2	"A Maori language oral test, yeaterday - Although I had studied á intensely - once in the examiners room \I blew it\"" -  I was so á nervous I couldn't reply easily - It was very important, but I á got only blankness."""
4	Six months ago when I got acquaintanced with a person whom I á trusted infinitely and from whom I expected help and friendly á feelings. With him I found much in common - in our views and in á our fate.
4	When I heard that I had achieved a place in form I.
6	Was caught stealing apples in a neighbor's garden.
4	Relating to my closest family.
2	When my neighbour's life was threatened by someone who was trying á to break into his house.
3	When I arrived home late at night.  I know that my mother gets á worried and this made me feel angry.
5	Hearing about developments of sience in the West a lot better á than China.
5	My elder sister scolded me in front of my younger sisters and á cousins.  She said that I was very lazy and I felt so sad that I á cried myself to sleep.
1	When I saw President Reagan get elected.
2	When going for my driver's licence for the third time, because á everything, it seemed, hinged on getting it. I was really nervous, á and the testing Officer made me a little afraid as well. There á were lots of things to worry about. I passed however.
2	I got a very nasty electrical shock when I was tampering with á some electrical applainces.á 
0	I came out of the house at 7:20 am Monday morning getting ready t á go to school and fight for a parking when I saw my car had a flat á tire.
3	My grandmother has been in a hospital for a week and I still á haven't had time to see her.
6	At a private party I literally fell into the food. The party was á completely ruined for the host, carpets had to be cleaned, etc.
6	After an oral examination I shook the professor's hand, but he á had only stretched it out for my ball-point-pen.
2	Vertigo - standing on a ladder and painting the house.
4	When the whole family gets together for a one week holiday.  á Everybody feels free and the trip is well planned.  It works out á well and we enjoy ourselves.
2	We were in the country and I walked away from the others one á night.  Suddenly something moved sharply in front of me and I was á not able to see what it was.
6	I failed an exam which I thought I would certainly pass.
5	A very close friend left me.
3	The first time I went away with my boyfriend and lied about where á we were staying.
0	Without the employer's knowledge and even without any á communication their bank accounts were changed and their personal á accounts closed.
5	I was sad when my MCE grades were out. I had gone for a football á match a mile away from home. The mail found me there. I was á disappointed and didn't play the other half of the match.
2	I was walking on the pavement when a white car rolled on it and á directed towards me. I was quite near the house wall when it á rolled by and hit me.
6	When I failed my Primary school leaving Examinations. I never á thought I would fail. When I heard I had failed I really felt á ashamed of myself.
0	Had an insulting letter from my father.
3	When I had wrongly explained someone an important exemple for an á examination.
1	I got disgusted with a man who was beating a woman in the street. á I just happened to be there but I was abhorred by the rudness.
5	My grandmother died.
4	When I received my U.E. accredited as I was totally unexpecting á it and I was so happy.
5	My grandmother died over the summer. I knew her very well, she á baked great biscuits. She was in the hospital but expected to á improve and go home soon. She died in her sleep.
5	When I lost my father on the 25th of September,1970.  He died of á a sore on the leg.
5	My girlfriend let me down badly 3 times in one week. These á instances summed up all the negative aspects of our relationship á which at the time seemed doomed to fail.
0	I have a very big family. At my grandmother's funeral we all met á and everybody pretended mourning. In reality it was like a á fashion-show: everybody wanted to show himself.
1	I was listening to a priest in church saying how sinful man was, á and how all men should renounce their desires and pleasures to á please God. I could never understand how something that brings you á joy could be a sin.
4	I was going to my village, after having been rather oppressed in á Madrid. 
3	I beat my young sister because she refused to wash plates. She á started crying and I felt sorry and guilty for what I did.
6	When I saw my father coming out of the bathroom. He thought that á he was alone at home and came out without his clothes.
5	I felt very sad when I saw the first list from the names of the á people who entered at the University and my name wasn't there.
5	Shifted from Melbourne to Brisbane. All my old school friends á gave me a party and I had to say good-bye to them all.
5	[ When family mmembers or friends blame me for something I am not á responsible for.  I feel very sad as it was not my fault.]
4	While watching an entertainment program in which there was a clever  á and amusing sketch.
3	In the begining of teenage, on the matters of sex - speaking á about sex.
5	Some months ago my wife gave birth to twin sisters. She had no á idea of looking after babies and she felt quite oppressed. The á fact that I couldn't help her caused grief to me.
4	My boy-friend told me that he would take me to the training of á the life-saving dogs.
5	This morning during my sleep I had a feeling that someboby was á attacking me.  I started crying in my sleep and then my room-mate á woke me up.
4	When I took my entrance exams successfully and also when I got my á school leaving certificate because the delivering ceremony was á extremely official.
3	Incomprehension and repression towards a child's behaviour, á commonly not accepted, and making the child cry.
4	I met again a very good friend whom I had not seen for a long á time.
1	When I was accused of having impregnated someone's daughter, it á was the girl's cousin who had done it. 
6	I got into a tight pair of trousers and examined myself in the á mirror.  My back looked unpresentable and I felt ashamed at my á wanting to wear those clothes that day.  I quickly changed into á another dress.
4	When my mother was tremendous on the phone and we talked for á hours. She was in a good mood.
6	When I went for the first time in my life to a nudist-beach.
2	The day I encountered a queer mamba face to face in a chunk of á leaves behind our house.
5	When I missed my train this morning, I felt sad for some time.
5	My uncle died in the Vietnam War.
4	I took a math midterm and I knew I did really well and it was á Friday so I felt great joy because the week was over and I did á well on a test.
0	I felt angry when I was told that I had not been selected to go á to the University.
2	At age 10 my foster grandmother died, I had a fear of dying.
6	When my boy-friend left me and I wanted to persuade him to stay.
3	A friend was going to come stay the weekend with me, but á something came up and I cancelled out on him.
0	My brother accused me undeservedly before my parents. I was not á guilty. He was misled by his wife.
1	Friends calling me fat - pear shaped in front of a nice girl.
4	When I qualified for form I.  I was one of the three pupils who á qualified for form I that year.
0	When my daughter began staying away from classes - at the age of á nine only.
4	When I had a good result in the certificate examination.
6	Failing in an examn because of lazyness.
3	My mother told me that the enveloppes that I had been tearing (I á had torn the stamps away) in good faith had been the first-day á enveloppes which my father had collected as a young man.
3	When I had lied, saying that I never take bread from the dinning á hall and a friend of mine caught me doing it.  He thus proved to á me that I did in fact take the bread.
0	During a fight with my best friend.
2	I broke a window of a neighbouring house and I feared my mother's á judgement and action on what I had done.
0	Recently when my sister, who is four years younger than me and á very spoiled, shouted at my mother for no apparent reason .  The á heart-broken expression on my mother's face made me feel very á angry.
0	My boyfriend promised to take me to see a game of tennis and rang á saying he was going to the pub with some of his friends instead.
6	When I walked out of my room with only my pants on and found my á girlfriend and her female friend looking for me outside.
2	I had a cousin whom I loved so much. Unfortunately she passed á away suddenly and one time I had a dream in which I was talking á to her yet she is dead.
5	When I was told that my father had passed away.
3	I did not attend a social studies observation class for 1 whole á week (I am a student trainee teacher). Anyway the other teachers á thought this was okay because the teacher I was supposed to á observe was not well liked. The teacher was in fact really nice á to me - but I wanted to get out of teaching a hard topic he had á given me.
1	I felt disgusted when a certain lady spoke words of sarcasm when á I was trying to propose to her.
2	When I was 8 years old my tonsils had to be operated on. This is á not a complicated operation, but just before it started I was á very afraid so that I will never forget it.
0	When I could not reason my friend, it angered me.
4	When I passed standard 8 exams I jumped, rolled over the ground.
4	I had not seen my brother for five years as he was not in Spain.   á When he arrived at the airport, I felt great joy.
0	I was watching TV with a friend. After the first film I wanted to á watch another film on the same channel. My friend switched over á to the other cannel without asking me what I wanted.
5	Lost a friend.
1	When we were young, a friend of mine tried to dissect a frog while  á we were playing near his home.
3	A few weeks ago I thought about an exam I had to take soon. I á remembered this just before I had to go to sleep. I felt guilt á because at the beginning of the year I planned to succeed.
4	When I was appointed to position of trust in a group set up to á change the working environment.
5	When I received my S.Y.J.C results which did not allow me to get   á admission in engineering.
3	When something went wrong for me I lashed out at someone else á whom I loved and who was not in any way responsible for what had á happened (my sister).
1	Someone ruining someone's property just for the fun of it.
2	It was not long ago when I and two of friends of mine got quite drunk á and one of them began to rave under the influence of the alcohol. á I felt fear of what could have happened.
1	When an uncle of mine who is very ill started to cough wich á sounded very dirty. (He can't help it of course).
2	Before a hospital visit prior to a D&C under anasthesia for an á expected miscarriage.
4	When a close friend met me at the station in the middle of the á night, when I came back from a long and tiring journey.
2	Left alone in the biology building surrounded by empty buildings.
1	When I went to the clinic for a medical check-up and saw the way á the lecturer was conducting the lecture and the kind of responses á he got from the patients.
0	One winter day I, unwillingly, was outdoors with my younger á brother (10 years younger than me).  I lost my temper on him and á wanted to throw my brother down the snow bank we were on.  I á pushed him but not as hard as I had wanted to. We were alone the á two of us.
0	People not resprcting my opinion.
4	When my 6 month old son is happy and well.
2	One day before Christmas, I went shopping with my brother and his á friend. We had a good time. But on the way home we were almost in á an accident because the weather was bad.
4	When my father married a certain lady. The reception was held at á Kasungu town Hall.
2	In 1960,  I was going to a school which was near my village and I á met a lion on the way, which disappeared suddenly.
3	I made a remark to my sister concerning her attitude to men, the á way she talked and I compared her to an acquaintance of mine.  á Later, the same evening, my sister looked sad.  I felt guilty á about her sadness.
3	Having suffered a not very pretty sight, I reacted by uttering á some very cruel and sharp words.
5	My sister was in a hospital, later in the evening we received the á information that she had died.
2	When I came to know that my exams were on two successive days and á that there was very little time (about 9-10 hours) to study in á between.
1	A person I know who tells lies and so pretending to be better á than she is.
0	When I saw a man hitting a child of 2 years without any consideration, á simply because the child had been leaning against a window.
2	Once our school class went skiing. On a steep slope a boy á standing behind me lost his balance, fell down and drew me with á him. I slided down the whole slope. At about 1 m distance from a á tree I could stop.
5	The loss of the woman who loved me most till today.
3	When I laughed at a lame man walking down the road, it looked á funny at the time but later I felt lousy.  It was the same day á that I had stolen some coins from my mother in the shop.
6	None.
5	My old teacher in primary school died.
4	When I was informed that I had been accepted as a student of á Psychology.
0	During a dance someone slashed my tires and dumped paint on my á car. I had four other friends with me that I drove and á furthermore it was raining.
1	Someone vomited on the street.
1	When at school I thought that I was going to get the best results á in mathematics, but it was someone else who got the prize.
5	When I heard that my Uncle had passed away in a road traffic á accident.
2	Before the examn.
2	When I was attending an authorized demonstrationand the police á rushed brutally at the demonstrators, without any warning.
3	A friend of mine shot himself through the head after having told á me and others that he would do so.
1	If a guy one is not interested in makes advances.
3	I borrowed my friend's radio cassette and the plug cracked and á some pieces broke off when the plug dropped off my hands.
6	When I went to the sauna for the first time and there were men á and women.
0	[ No response.]
0	Friend (male) hinted that my talking to other men at a pub was á immoral. He implied that I should remain only with my boyfriend á the entire evening.
5	When I began to read a thick book, which I had a limited time to á read.  Also when I have a lot of work to do and I cannot keep up.
1	After my +2, when I did not get admission in B.E I felt disgusted.
1	I saw a program on T.V where they had to saw a skull for an        á operation.
5	I received the mid-term exam paper of one of my major subjects á and I found that I had failed it.
2	This was what I felt when my boyfriend went to Bourgas to study á there. I had the feeling I would lose him. Anyway the distance á Plovdiv-Bourgas seemed to me so great.
2	When one meets new people with whom one is forced to collaborate á with.
0	My classmate always borrowed my notes and would not return it to á me on time.  When I had a test she was selfish and irresponsible á and so delayed my studies.
6	Shame of being reprehended.
4	I felt very happy when I won the football pools.
3	In an exam when I answered the questions with very little á assurance due to insufficiet preparation.
1	When a very near person got into an awkward situation but showed á only helplessness and indecision.
1	Several weeks ago, I had problems with friends, I felt disgusted á by a friend.
2	When I heard a rumour that the 1st year exam results were out. I á had fear that I might be one of the failures.
0	When students in our working group showed no responsibility or á interest in our work.
5	When I noticed that my parents were not in such a prosperity as á most people in my surroundings.
4	When I won the first prize in a cross country race.
2	I was less than 10 years old when our neighbour's dog chased me á to the roof of a small shed and there seemed to be no hope of á getting away from there.
5	A few months a close relative of mine died.  I had never expected á this to happen and was sad for a few months.
0	When my roommate's moped was stolen I was very angry.
3	When I took a car which was not mine, and suddenly it stopped á working.
3	I stole 5c from my mother's purse for a choo-choo bar - I was 6.
5	Not being able to do well to be chosen for the English lecture.
5	A girlfriend ended our relationship in an abrupt and unexpected á manner.
2	Once as a child I dreamed of a fire. Since that time I hadn't á wanted to sleep in that bed and had feared the night darkness á (and so it is now).
6	Losing my temper and allowing myself to act childishly by yelling á and screaming at a person who I felt had done me wrong - in á effect lowering myself to their level.
2	Ran into a parking car on a bicycle.
6	When my mother surprised me while masturbating.
1	Finding out my grades at the end of my Sophomore year.
0	When others let me down, fail to keep agreements.
2	Before important sports events.
1	[ No response.]
2	When I was convinced that someonne had broken into my flat and I á woke up and heard sounds that frightened me.
1	After the first of May, I detested my fiance's friends, who had á piled on to our party and spoilt it completely.
6	When I could not hold my bladder while making a telephone call á and ended up wetting myself.
5	When my grandmother died very suddenly without warning.
3	I joked with an unfamiliar friend in an obstinate tone.  I was á afraid of his misunderstanding me and being hurt and angry at me. á  I felt sorry over my conduct and thought that I had to find an á opportunity to apologize.
6	A day when I was getting out of the shower I covered only the á front part of my body with a towel (I was 7 years old), and I á didn't see that my cousin was in the room.
0	Listening to long speech of the party leaders wasting my time.
6	Exaggerating certain circumstances, wrong attitude and evaluation á of these circumstances.
1	Quarreling with my father, when he made false assertions.
5	The death of my twin sister - suicide.
5	My grandfather's death.
5	My father died unexpectedly at the age of 53 years. He certainly á would have liked to live longer. I was also said because I was á confronted with the fact that I would die one day too.
5	When I argue with my mother about the way she treats her two á children differently.
1	A few days after I had finished the relationship with my á boyfriend, we had a quarrel. Then he hit me. At that moment I á found him disgusting.
6	[ Same as above - friends who torture animals.]
4	I preached to a F.3 students in a gospel camp.  They thus knew á more about God and made up their minds to believe in Jesus.
3	I threw away an object, which belonged to a friend, because I did á not know what to do with it. My friend was very sad about that á and I felt guilty.
4	My friend replying to my letter and again saying he was attracted á to me and suggesting we write, talk and get together and see how á things went and his suggestion that I could ring and doing that it á was really good - though really insane conversation.
3	After confronting the person who stood me up, I blew up and said á all the wrong things.
2	When thieves broke into my house at night and held my wife and me á on gun-point for at least ten minutes and took away a lot of á property.
2	Riding through a bush fire on an island of Australia - on a á pushbike as a little boy - all alone, lost and surrounded by á smouldering wood and flame.
2	I went home all alone from a restaurant. It was dark, I went very á fast. Behind me, there were some drunk men who shouted at me. By á chance, I met some friends who accompanied me.
0	When my friend promised that she would come to my place, and did á not turn up - I was annoyed at her.
2	A fear from the loss of a close friend as a result of his á behavior.
6	When Dad went to a Sports Day and was the only parent there, and á he was cheering for us.
2	The weather is very bad (fog and slipperiness) the newcast á reports many traffic accidents and my boyfriend is driving home á and still has 60 kilometers to go.
6	Some persons, who are important for me, came to see me and I had á not washed the dishes.
3	When I made a mistake at work and when questioned about it á pretended I had nothing to do with the problem.
3	I felt guilty at being part of the successful people. Felt guilty á at being a student when other people were not. Guilt about being á a potential success in various areas of society. (So stupid this á emotion)
2	The day my parents were involved in a car accident and had to be á operated  and before the operation the doctor said that it was á mater of life or death.
5	My grandfather's funeral.
1	I was once raped (one year ago) by a man who was a lot older than á me and whom I just met. Maybe it wasn't rape but the man wanted á more than I wanted to give him since there were other people in á vicinity.
4	A few weeks back I received a Christmas card from a friend in á England.  She had not written to me in a very long time but it     á showed that she still remembered me.
5	When a colleague failed to contact me at the arranged time.
4	Birth of children.
4	Success in university entrance examination.
0	Being told that I have not got a personality.
5	Recently I felt very sad without any reason. It lasted for a few á days. There was nothing I liked in that period.
0	I had not eaten anything for 2 days to be able to pay the fine á for my fiancT. But he stayed in another town and spent one á thousand shillings in the restaurant during the same time.
4	Winning a game after a long time of losing.
6	Not doing well in the examn.
0	Stopped at a Fast Food shop with friends and a few locals wanted á to fight us for no apparent reason. They hit and picked on one of á my friends.
4	I received an unexpected B+ on an engineering midterm. I did not á study nearly as much as I should have and it was a difficult á test.
4	I stopped working (had a boring job).
1	One of my flatmates and I came back to the flat Monday morning, á to find a real Mess, left by the guy we share with.
3	I offended a person who had done much for me and who had helped á me for everything.
2	To talk in a meeting - expound my thoughts on a subject. Fear á delayed me acting to do this.
4	At a friend's birthday party with some of my closest friends.  It á was all very pleasant and one could say that I was happy to have á such good friends.
1	When people are eating unsavoury (smacking, belching, speaking á with food in their mouth, etc.).
6	That my brother and father are into alcohol, two men with á priviledge. Not using it positively.
6	When for the first and the last time I tried to crib and the á teacher was with her back to me but right when I was taking the á materials out she turned round and saw me.
5	My fiancT left me for my best friend.
0	When my boyfriend sat up half the night playing computer games á with a friend.
3	One night,when I was in primary 5 or 6, I felt thirsty so I á fetched the thermos to pour a cup of water for myself.  Then I á saw my brother lowering his head and I, jokingly, poured the       á water on his head.
6	When dropping a carton of boiling soup onto a co-worker's leg - á causing great pain, and for me, severe embarassment at my own á ineptitude, and shame that another person suffered as a result.
2	The shooting started and we all lay down to protect ourselves á from the flying bullets.  This incident occured on our way to á Feira, during the Zambia army patrols in the Rhodesia war.
6	When I was in F4 I led my class to a riot.  However the form á master said that my conduct was good and asked me to tell him the á names of those who had taken part in it.   I replied that I did á not know.
0	When during Winter the water pipes froze and we did not have any á water for two days.
4	I felt joy when I passed the worst phase in my life and á discovered how many people considered me important to them.
1	At school a classmate who was a very good pupil had to help á another boy who performed less well. He told him on purpose the á wrong things so that he had to repeat a year.
4	I received a letter and a Christmas present from a person I had á not seen for two years.
2	My friend and I had offended our classmate unintenionally.  We á wanted to apologize to her so we decided to visit her.  We knew that she á was stubborn so we were frightened.  When we rang her door bell, á our fear was at it's climax
4	On my birthday, when I was given my presents.
5	When I realized that it did not make much sense to start a á relationship with a girl who was not very constructive to á establish a firm relationship.
5	This happened when one of my uncles died just whan I was á planning to go and visit him during the next holidays.
3	For example, when I have promised something but I haven't á fulfilled it.
5	There was a conflict of interest between me and a close friend of á mine.  He only thought about his own interest and not about our á friendship.  This behaviour hurt his friends.  Another incident á is when a friend isolated himself without giving any reasons.
0	I have a friend that I deeply trusted but it happened that I lost á my confidence in her for which she herself was to blame.
1	Having unwanted attention paid to me in my place of work - á harrassment (and sexual harrassment) by another worker - á disgusted by his implications.
0	An argument among several friends because of the irrational á behavior of one of them who fell out with us for no reason and á said that we were to blame.
0	I had a discussion with my mother concerning my sister's divorce, á we disagreed strongly.
4	Day before yesterday my mother bought me a new pair of shoes, á without my having asked for them.  She told me that when she saw á the pair of shoes she felt like buying them for me.  I really á liked the shoes and they made me feel that my mother cares for á me.
1	Some people were unfairly treated, because of their á nationality/colour.
6	When money was stolen from my pocket.
1	A saturday night a bus full of drunken people.
0	A friend of mine had promised to arrange me some tickets for a á concert which I considered important.  He could not get them the á way he thought he would, so he gave up the whole thing.
4	When I started a relation with a girl, with whom I have fallen in á love already some time ago.
4	When my brother was born, everything went all right.  It had been á very likely that he would have a deficiency (my sister suffers á from Down's Syndrome) and that my mother would be in danger.
6	I made an unkind remark about the ethnicity of some friends á without realizing it.
4	I had been very weary all week - no letters, no phonecalls, no á visitors and then my younger sister came with some cheese, a card á and some pocket money for me; and she told me that she was á working now.
4	When my daughter gave her solo dance performance in Poona and á there was a big applause, I was overjoyed.
3	When I promised a male friend of mine to visit him, and did not.
3	About not helping my sister when she asked me to help her on her á chemistry class. I pretended to be busy.
0	My girl-friend did not understand me; I was angry with myself á because I had problems when we seperated - I could not resign á myself to it.
6	Hit a dog with my car, and didn't stop.
3	When I went to my room-mate's drawer to see if she had an iron  á which I could use, she came in.  I felt guilty as she may have á thought that I had been stealing.
0	When a professor of this faculty laughed at, and was suspicious of á a composition written by a class-mate and me.
3	Remembering (at the time I did not feel guilt) in recent yrs. how á angry I would get when I was babysitting my new brother and he á would not stop crying. I did not do anything harmful or shocking. á But I feel guilty for treating him the way I did especially á since I adore him now. That's why I spoil him now.
4	I am not especially good at English, and after the high school á graduation exam in English I tensely waited for the result the á whole day.  In the evening, when I heard that I had done á excellently, I became very happy and the anxiety vanished.  My á family was at home.
4	I went to visit friends and it was very companionable.
4	Meeting an old friend from high school.
2	I was going home by car late one night when it was cold, dark and á windy.  I became rather panicky on the way to my house.
3	I was said to be responsible for my mother getting ill and á growing thin. I did not realize that it really was my fault until á several weeks later.
2	A grenade blew out next to me.
4	When I discovered that I and my friend would be licensed at the á first call. This emotion was accompanied by a great relief. It á was the coronation of a year of sacrifice and extrene discipline.
0	When a person is privileged in account of situations that are á unjust, and disloyal to colleagues and friends.
5	The death of my grandmother.
0	Somebody was blaming me of a story which was not real and not á true.
0	Being mistreated by other people.
1	When I found my girl in bed with another man.
3	I was unfaithful to my partner once when he was working abroad á for a long period.
5	The quarrel between my  parents.
6	This was when I was discovered stealing a piece of bread at home, á I was very hungry a few hours before supper.
4	Getting into this university to do medicine.
5	[ No response.]
3	Fight with my mate after a quarrel.
2	Fighting with class mates in Highschool.
2	Every time I went home with my school report.
0	"As a child - about 8 years old - walking across a paddock - being á set upon by another boy who claimed it was \his land\"" - being á intimidated by the boy - crying, being punched, etc."""
4	At my wedding - standing with the man I love and acknowledging á that fact to members of family and friends.
4	When my family allowed me to do higher studies.
3	I saw a neighbour, from the same appartment block as me, lying    á on the road.  He could have been injured or ill.  I kept 20 á metres away and did not go to help him.
3	Something very unpleasant happened when I was a soldier and I was á directly involved in it.
6	Failing an examn.
5	When my dog died.  I had reared it for nearly three years.  It á had been ill for several days and had not eaten anything.  One á morning I found it dead.
4	When I am with friends and I do what pleases me this often á happenes.
2	Continous fear of a nuclear war.
5	When my grandmother died of cancer.
3	When I was young I felt guilty because I thought that I had á commited a grave sin.
3	Calling lecturers nicknames when talking to housemen (They told á ne you are even younger than they are so you should not be giving á public lectures).
0	I was in the library of medical psychology and walked into the á wrong direction. A man who came out of a room threated me very á denigrating and I became very angry in a resisting manner.
2	When I almost fell down from some rocks because I had been acting á foolishly and playing dangerously.
4	I learnt from the newspaper that I had been accepted at the á Chinese university of H.K.  It was 7 o'clock in the morning.  á Later I told my family and relatives about it and had tea with á them very joyfully.
1	When I saw a fight I had a physical reaction of disgust and of á deep perturbation.
0	Falling in love although she is my friend (angry with myself).
2	When I was going home alone one night in Paris and a man came up á behind me and asked me if I was not afraid to be out alone so á late at night.
6	I always feel ashamed when I do not succeed in accomplishing á something in which I had put in all my efforts.
6	I put an end to a friendship with a girl - I had only pretended á love and affection to be able to sleep with her.
3	When I was reproved eighth grade of high school.
2	As a child I suffered of nightmares. Even since than, I have á never been so anxious and fearful.
3	During a holiday in East-Germany I got aquainted with a boy who á lived there. We started writing, but I only wrote once. I felt á ashamed because I probably was one of his sparse contacts with á western Europe.
1	When after a party celebrating a friend's 21st birthday - upon á leaving I found 10 people outside throwing up and further 4 á unconscious.
5	Close relative is dying of cancer - found out last week.
5	The death of my father.
3	I live with my boyfriend, we have a close relationship, I fell in á love with another man.
6	I was catched when, as a little girl, I played tricks. I was very á startled then and wet my pants.
1	Seeing maltreated, dead animals.
5	When my girlfriend decided to finish our relation.
4	When I heard that I had made it to the second year at UNZA.
1	In secondary school I had a class-mate who talked too much.   á Once we went to the cinema after school and she sat next to me and á commented the movie throughout  - very disgusting.
4	I had a very close friend who went to Canada after her F.B, his  á departure was unavoidable.  When he came back during the Summer á holidays I was very happy as nothing had changed between us.
3	Not doing well in the examn.
3	Low evaluation of other people's cares.
6	Having had a very heated argument with my sister - I began á hitting her about the head with a newspaper I was holding.
6	I stayed at home for a period because I felt depressive and I á neglected my study when people adked me, I told them that I had á freeterm and studied hard. I felt ashamed for my behavior and á lies.
6	When I stayed on a nudism beach, a man was watching me in a á disagreeable way. I had the feeling that he was examining my á body.
1	[ Can not think of any situation.]
3	[ No response.]
0	My father called me (behind my mother's back) and told me that my á mother disapproved my behavior in the weekend. However, he didn't á tell me the details and left me with unanswered questions.
6	Failed in a piblic argument.
5	I heard of the death of a closefriend of mine.  I had gone camping        á with him shortly before his death and the whole thing seemed very  á sudden to me. 
0	I felt it when a girl who was dear to me lied to my face. I got á angry with the fact that she knew I didn't believe her but she á kept on telling lies.
0	When a thief broke into my house and stole some valuable goods.
0	A very close friend of mine was refused entrance to the medical á school.  Her grades were very good and she should not have been á left out.  Biased judgment !
6	I was amongst a group of people talking about how the Maori á people were stirrers and causing trouble in our country. I felt á shame to be a pakeha when other pakehas had such narrow á conservative views.
5	When I felt alone and without love.
3	When I accepted a lunch invitation from a past male friend.
4	When a person that I like very much got near to me.
1	I once saw an old man up the road, fossicking through the rubbish á bins and the gutter. I was really disgusted at first but I've á seen him a few times since then and now I feel really sorry for á him and I often give him cigarettes when I see him, because he á mainly goes after cigarette butts and it is revolting.
0	"When my father took away my cherised diaries to burn them (I was á also very sad) \Oh, how I hated him\""."""
6	I was examined by a teacher I greatly respected. I was well á prepared on the subjects but he put some side-issues to me and I á couldn't answer.
2	One night, while I was sleeping, I woke up suddenly with the á sensation that there was someone in my room.
2	I am scared when I stroll alone on the Chung Chi college campus. 
6	When I sat in the wrong discussion section in the beginning of á the semester. I insisted on being in the right section and the á TA's list should have included my name. When I found out that I á was in the wrong, I apologized, turned red and left.
5	When I came back from my holidays.
5	My boyfriend finished our relationship when I started studying á psychology in Nijegen, because then we would not be able to meet á frequently anymore.
0	Someone borrowed my textbook and deliberately did not return it.
5	Did badly in an examn.
3	After masturbation.
1	When mum had beaten my young sister just because she had received á a letter from a boyfriend.
1	Finding out that the class leader can go to your lectures, and á his English is worse than mine.
0	When I was concentrating on my work, my friend disturbed me á continously.  I asked him to stop but in vain.
2	My husband suddenly fell ill seriously and during the medical á examinations we did not know what would follow.
1	When I entered the wound intensive care at the Central Hospital á in Blantyre which was stinking.
2	I was about to begin a journey in a car with an acquaintance of á mine.
1	Some students trying to please the lecturer.
1	A friend of mine was telling jokes which I felt to be very á disgusting, especially because I was eating.
2	Before I moved away from home, I feared leaving.
5	My friend still trusts me as a friend.
0	When I was doing research a few months ago, I had asked the á Institute to sponsor me for a computer course which was held in á TISS.  However, because of the administrative officer I could not á get the money.
3	I felt guilty because I stole some sweets from my father's á grocery. When he asked me who stole the sweets I told him it was á my brother who stole the sweets and he was scolded.
3	A friend asked to borrow my notes and I did not give them away á (my notes too badly written)
0	One day in a crossroad somebody crashed my car. I got out and á this person laughed at me. I felt such a great anger that I got á in my car and went away.
6	I thought I would be able to use the mangle of the house, and so á I did not want any help.  However, I blocked it and I had to get á the janitor to help me out.  He reproached me for not having á followed the instructions
2	When I got lost in New York city a late friday night with a á friend of mine.
3	I stroke a person undeservedly.
5	When grandfather died.
0	When my colleague spat on my face after a quarrel.
1	When I realized that my closest friend had said bad things about á me when I was not around and had betrayed me by making friends á with my boyfriend's other girl.
4	When I was admitted to the Higher Institute.
4	When I passed the university entrance exam.
4	Always when I meet the person I love.
6	When my mother looked in my drawer (where I keep my personal á things) and she found some porno photos that I have kept from á more than a week, and split it.
3	I had wasted some time instead of doing something I needed to do á to give to a friend. (Also in the time I wasted I had done some á things I did not consider morally right).
2	When I was in my village one of my enemies had written a á non-sense letter to a girl and he told the father of this girl á that I was the culprit.  When I got to know this I was scared as  á the girl's father was a worse man.
4	When I attended my cousin's 31st birthday.
6	When I broke the piggy bank of my brother and my mother á discovered that.
0	It happened that my brother promised to give me money for school á and then he told me that he had failed to fulfil his promise a á day before school started. I became so angry for I thought my á future would be ruined.
2	I was afraid when I met my Uncle because this time I was with my á boyfriend I thought I was not going to be given pocket money.
0	When the Real Madrid football team lost against the inter in the á U.E.F.A cup.
4	When I heard what mark I had got at the entrance examination and á I realized my admittance to the University was almost certain.
6	When I was a school girl and I copied at a class work.
1	[ Can not remember.]
0	Heard about someone telling lies about me to my best friend.
6	When I asked a friend to return the money that I had loaned her á and then remembered that she had repayed me in several ways.
3	I pointed a failure of a friend of mine.
1	I was dancing Malipenga (traditional dance). I exaggerated the á steps I was supposed to make in the negative way. This happened in á front of spectators. It was bad for our Boma (group) because I á was on the front line where ability is displayed and it is this á ability that counts when choosing the winning side.
5	[ During a summer holiday a French girl and I had becoe back á home, I felt very sad.]
0	I was angry at a University tutorial when an ignorant loudmouth á persisted in trying to dominate the conversation.
2	When I saw a dead body in the mortuary I became afraid and I was á filled with fear.
1	"When an employer of my younger sister (17 yrs) made a \pass\"" at á her."""
1	I felt disgust of dirty.
6	I felt shame when I had to talk with a person that I hadn't seen for á many years. Shame that he wouldn't recognize me or that I á wouldn't know what to say.
1	Finding out that some students are getting good reports they do á not deserve.
2	Before one of my final exams of the third year - natural á sciences.
6	I insulted two of my friends because I thought that had been á gossiping about me right under my nose, however I later found out á that they were not doing so.
2	Once I was caught by thugs aged between 20-35, they asked me to á surrender all the property I had and I remember feeling very scared.
5	I tried to talk to my parents over the phone, as I wanted to go á home for the week-end and I knew that I would not be able to bear á it.  I tried to reduce the gulf and the conflict between us by á talking in order to unite our worlds.  Result : hysterical mess, á blinding and blaming.
0	When colliding with my car. I myself was to blame.
6	After a jogging session I had severe abdominal cramps and this á lead to my wanting to empty my bladder.  My friends gathered á around me and two of them had to help me to the toilet.  I was á ashamed at having to go to the toilet in the presence of my á friends.
5	When I was not chosen to go to your English lectures. 
5	When one is alone and knows that all the others are celebrating.
2	Upon reading a story on a serial killer by the name of Henry Lee á Lucas who has been given the distinction of killing more people á that any other man. I began to wonder if I should take more care á for my safety.
6	I was swimming in the sea and a wave took the top part of my á bikini away.
2	A letter from my boyfriend began in such a way that I thought he á was going to end our relationship. I was afraid of reading the á rest.
5	I felt very sad when I was in Form three to notice that my friend á Barley Jumbe, had lost very expensive new sports short trousers.
1	Robbery mentioned under sadness.
4	[ A successful lesson.]
0	When someone threw a firecracker into my room at 7:00 am in the á morning.
2	When I was walking on the street, a group of drunk, bawling young á people approached.
4	When my girl told me that she loved me more than any male á creature on earth and that I would be the only one in her heart á for all her life.  
6	About Sweden's arms exports.
0	Insulted by some stupid people.
3	[ Do not remember any incident.]
6	I felt something akin to shame after a heavy night of drinking, á along with waking up with a woman I had just met whose husband á was an epileptic. I was later to know that she knew my mother.
5	The day I was to receive my gold-medal for the M.A, my á grandmother, who I loved very much, died after an illness.  She  á died a few hours before the convocation.  While I was á attending the convocation I had to control my grief as she would á not have liked me to miss it.  It was a day she had been waiting á for, but did not get to see. 
6	During an argument an acquaintance accused me of having insulted á her parents by having had sex in their house which they á overheard.
0	I quarrelled with my brothers (twins) at home on saturday.  One á of them studies in a private school and the other one is á repeating his form five.  They do not know what they are doing.  á They follow every word of their teachers, books and systems.  á They always try to rationalize their bad acts by some game and á they are satisfied with their awkward life.  I have tried to á persuade them very often but have failed.  This time I had a á fight as they have no voluntary spirit (they did not polish the á floor).
5	When my ex-boyfriend and I separated.
1	When I was told that the brother who was staying with me would á not go to the training school that year but only the year after.
1	In the bus I was sitting next to a colleage who was drunk and á behaved in keeping with his state.
5	When my mother was operated.
0	My friends promised me that they would definitely call me to tell á me if they were visiting me or not.
3	When I think that I do not study enough.  After the weekend I á think that I should have been able to have accomplished á something during that time.
1	I found out accidentaly that while my uncle was away in Canada, my á aunt had been bedding a young man on a regular basis.
0	When I had an argument with my best friend and I thought that I á was right and she was not.
2	When I come home late at night.
5	When my grandmother after staying with us for awhile went back á home.
0	The patient whom I expected to get well suddenly passed away á after he showed had his meals.
0	When my dress was stolen.
3	I was to take a test and I had not made the necessary preparations á until it was too late.  There were two days to go and I still had á not done much.
6	Telling a lie.
2	At about nine p.m., I went home by bike on a dark cycle-track; á because of lack of time I had to take the short-cut.
1	My superior at the summer job swindled customers as much as he á could, and once put me in a difficult situation after which I á could not but detest him.
2	My grandfather had lung-cancer and was being nursed at á home.  I felt fear when I was alone with him and he almost choked á on mucus secretions.
2	When I have to leave the baby in the carriage and go shopping, I á fear that something will happen to the baby.
3	When I hit my young sister without a valid reason.
1	When my husband told me about his pre-marital affairs.
5	While still at school a friend died of cancer, after being ill á for a long time, she was 17 yrs old.
4	When I qualified for form I.
6	When a friend of mine visited me and my house was in a mess.
1	This was when I saw, for the first time, a naked woman á (prostitute) run away from a house after having been discovered á by the guardian.
3	I was at a boarding school during my primary school days. I was á broken so I pretended I was very sick. My father came and he á picked me up. He spent a lot of money on medical expenses which á all proved to be negative.
1	A few days back I was waiting for the bus at the bus stop.  á Before getting into the bus I had prepared the exact amount of á coins to pay for the bus fair and when I got into the bus I put á these coins into the box meant to collect the bus fair.  I á thought that I had paid and wanted to get inside.  However the á bus driver called me and asked me in an impolite way if the coins á were stuck at the opening  of the box.  He had not seen me paying á and there wasn't a stack of coins in the box.  I could not á understand this and the driver kept questioning me.  He made me á feel angry and at last i inserted a dollar coin in the box just á to get away from him.  Later I found that I had forgotten a few á coins in my pocket and had not paid enough for the fair the first á time.  After I had entered the bus I could still hear him á scolding me and I felt disgusted.
2	I had decided to propose to the man I liked to make a trip á together.  One day, during breakfast I told him my idea.  I was á afraid of his not accepting it and that the idea would end up as á a failure.
6	When I had to represent my boss at a meeting.
4	When I attended the concert of a pop singer.
1	During military service I heard the story of someone who tried to á commit suicide and as a result of this got a week custody.
0	Getting a terrible exam mark, which I couldn't understand the á reason for, and trying to see a lecturer or tutor, but being á given the runaround.
1	Some time ago a girl tried to make me up without any action of my á part. She used all possible means. Although I behaved refusingly á she did not give up for a longer time.
5	It made me very sad to hear that some construction company was á going to build houses on the beautiful hills by my house.
1	A brother from one of the Christian fellowship often phoned me á and talked to me for half an hour or more.  However there was á nothing important in the conversation and I found the person very á disgusting.
5	I finished the relationship with my boyfriend, after having felt á myself very unhappy for a long time.
1	When I saw a T.V programme on animals in the film world á (mistreated and used).
1	The price I was charged for work on my car.
6	In my opinion guilt is a feeling which goes together with shame. á Here then I refer to the situation of guilt.
6	Can't remember that feeling.
2	As a child (i.e. 5-7) hiking in reasonably rugged bush and á becoming lost for a duration of 5-7 hours.
2	I had an important amount of money with me and felt fear of being á assaulted.
6	Adultery with the girlfriend of a friend of mine, of which he á learned.
5	When I left my boyfriend. I found another girl at his home but he á did nothing to relieve the situation.
3	After I had cheated my parents that I had lost my textbooks so á they had to send me money.
6	During carnaval I danced for a few minutes normally I don't dance á because I am rigid in my moving around during a dance, I stopped á very soon.
0	Once a person in authority (school teacher) was telling blatant á lies about me and the headmistress would not let me defend á myself. She was also telling lies about other members of my á family.
4	Passing an examination, although I felt sure I had failed.
0	I told my boy friend not to park in a certain place because the á car would ger towed away - he didn't listen and it was towed away. á At that stage, our finances were below the poverty line & it á cost us $10.00 - all the money we had to get us through that week á (including rent).
5	My son's mother told me that she wanted to move to Vienna and á take the child with her. This means a rather long distance for á me. My whole family was sad and dumbfounded so that my own á feelings were intensified.
5	I feel sad about an event I can not influence.
0	When my parents drove me to a nearby place and went home á immediately instead of waiting a few hours.  They could have á easily waited.
6	I was going around with a foreigner's wife and my entire family á got to know about it, this was just when I had become a á Christian.
2	Last Summer I was walking along the beach in a bikini and an á awful man came cycling after me.  He was shouting and I ran as á fast as my legs could carry me.
4	When I go out with my friend with enough money and good sense to á our favorite dancing.
5	I realized that the girl I loved had to leave me.
0	When they threw my holder down on the floor, with all my notes for á an exam inside it and they got all mixed up.
0	One day my elder brother badly scolded my father.  This was the á first time that I heard such abusive language from my brother.  I á requested him humbly not to use this kind of language but he did á not care for what I was saying.  Finally I picked up an axe to use á against him, in the meanwhile people intervened.
1	One of my best friends was found lying flat on the road because á he was drunk and was taken by the police and put in a cell. I á went to see him the following morning, the place was really a á mess and was smelling badly. I didn't like it.
2	When my dog ran out on thin ice last spring.
3	I was pregnant and thought that by not having the baby I would á hurt the father like he did me regardless of the life we had á created.
0	I reachad home to find that my baby had not been bathed and fed.
3	When I cheated my trusting girlfriend by telling her that I was a á qualified doctor and later she found out that I was only a á medical student at the preclinical level.
1	After the accident which I described in SHAME. I came to myself á and saw how terrible everything looked like. I disgusted myself á and everything I saw.
6	My first girlfriend. I had the feeling that she was going out á with me only because of my defect.
1	I read a newspaper report that a little boy was forced to look á while his sister was raped.
0	I feel this feeling when I am to fill in a questionnaire or a á form.
4	When I learnt that I had been admitted to the university.
2	When I was cycling past a parked car someone opened the door and á nearly pushed me off my bike and into the traffic.
0	The government's announcement of the withdrawal of the student á allowances in 1984.
6	When I bought new skis; I was ashamed to tell the assistant that á I am not good at skiing and therefor bought racing skis.
3	I was supposed to fetch some friends at the bus stop, but I did á not do it because my father was in a bad mood and I was afraid á that he would grumble.
1	"I once watched the series called \Dynasty\"" on TV, and I detested á it."""
6	I was dancing in a theatre.  I was not sure whether some frieends á of mine had come to see me.  I was very scared of doing things á wrong.
6	When friends found out that I had been lying about where I had á been on a particular occasion.
2	I was caught doing something I was not supposed to do.  I did á something with the person who caught me (bribe) and even though á he promised not to report me, I am still frightened.
4	When I passed an exam.
1	When I learnt that my best friend had failed the exams.
0	Before the certificate examination I was very poor in Biology á (the worst result in my class).  Ever since F.5 it had been á getting poorer and poorer.  I had tried my best and had spent á most of my time studying this subject.  Finally my results were á so bad that I thought that it was just not fair.
2	The exam was drawing near and I wanted to prepare for it.  But I á had a lot of other things to do so I did not have much time to prepare  á for the exams.  Whenever I sat down to study I was scared that I would  á not be able to finish it.
0	I had to unscrew something on my car. I didn't succeed after two á afternoons of trying. A feeling of anger built up itself.
5	When my uncle died of leukemia at age 35.
4	I was captain of the school swimming team. The team was only two á points in front before the last relay. We won the relay, which I á swam in, and thus my team won the championship.
3	I was spending a few days at my aunt's place.  One night I got á home very late, I had told them I was going to a party but I went á to another place.  They were very worried.
6	"Put down by my father - at a family outing at mutual family á friends dinner. Told \Not to Speak\"". The attitude by him was á negative/I was in mid 20s, I had done many things - a wide range á of experiences. Probably greater than he."""
2	My mom called early in the morning (On a Monday) and I had just á seen her that weekend. I couldn't understand what could be so á important as to make her call at such a strange hour. I missed á the call and had to call her back that afternoon.
6	At the seaside, when a wave suddenly came and took off my bikini.
0	When my roommate's boyfriend assaulted me. He was threatening me, á calling me names and pushing me around.
6	In a play (secret friend) during the time of the high school I á had to give a present to a boy and I was very ridiculous because á of this.
3	Recently when I made a slip and blurted out indecent words in my á mother's presence.
3	Too busy to write letters to friends and they said I had á forgotten about them.
2	When I took the first year university exams and made a lot of á mistakes in the P110 exam.  I was afraid of failing and thus á being unable to go to the school of medicine.
2	Late one night I was pursued by gipsies who had no good á intentions.
0	Not being alowed on a school camp with the class I'd been in for á 11 years (I had stayed down due to illness)
3	I was not sure whether I should help an old woman going down a á flight of stairs. I just watched her and saw how difficult it was á for her to do it.
5	My best friend had a relatively severe illness.  I was sad á because she was suffering.
6	I was in a bus with my school material when I fell and sat on the á lap of another passenger.
4	I experienced joy at a friend's 22nd birthday party. We had good á food, good liquid, good company, good music, and an overall warm á atmosphere. The birthday girl and I communicate incredibly well. á I felt very content, warm and inspired just talking with her á giving her a neck massage.
2	Somebody told her friend that she would hit me wherever we would á meet.
2	"A \near-accident\"" in a car, driving too fast on an icy road."""
4	Getting into this university to do medicine.
4	When I got my results - I had passed the form III exams.  I had á not expected to do so well.
4	Several good friends made me a surprise visit and this made me á happy.  They are my closest friends and we had not seen each á other for a long time.
1	A friend of mine had sex with someone of a different race on a á Winnebago trip down to USC in front of everyone (all my friends á embarrassed my sorority house name).
4	I was filled with joy when I heard that I had been selected to á come here at Kamuzu College of Nursing.
4	When I learned I was admitted to study what I wanted most - á floriculture (this is a narrow specialization from the general á one).
2	When I was involved in a car accident last November, after the á first fall of snow.  I lost control of the car and it spun round á and landed on the opposite side of the road, on the hard á shoulder.  It was stopped by a pole on top of a bank sloping down á to a stream.
2	When my mother met with a serious accident and there was danger á that she would not survive and if she did she would loose á her memory.
4	My class winning against another class in a football match.
5	When I heard my sister got in a bad car accident.
1	The time when I cleaned the house and everything was tidy, á then my cousin, who is 4 years old, came with a muddy pot and made á a mess of the whole thing.
6	When the cast general election resulted in Norway getting a á conservative government.
2	I felt so afraid when dad fell ill, he had never suffered from á that disease since and I had never seen him as he was.
4	When I was admitted to a certain school as a student.
1	When I slept with a guy because my best friend wanted me to.  á He had never had intercourse with anyone and had a terrible á complex about it.
5	I couldn't be with a girl on whom I was very keen.
4	I was in grade 7.  We had an inter-house volley-ball competition. á  In Luapula I was the youngest member of the team and I scored  á the winning goal using my head.  I jumped up with joy and fell á down.
6	While dining with some accquaintances I was asked something á which I should have known but I did not know.
6	First weekend back home after one week at Uni I scolded one of my á sister's best friends for using our telephone. Very silly, but I á was annoyed because she was there at a time when I needed to be á with my family.
0	Insulted by the class leader.
1	Discovering a good friend had lied to me, resulting in a á detrimental relationship with another person.
6	I was wearing a short skirt one day and someone told me my á underwear was showing.
2	I was walking alone along the place where people fear that there á are always thieves there and the people who kill their friends á during the night two months ago.
2	I feel fear when I only imagine I could lose confidence in my own á abilities and powers. A similar feeling I feel sometimes before á an exam.
6	[ I have not felt this emotion in my life.]
2	I was studying in class at night. I was in Form II by then. There á were rumours about an earthquake. That night dogs were chasing á one another and passed through the window outside the classroom. á Those who saw the dogs thought it was a lion and were terrified. á Trying to run away the desks were dragged and there was a shaking á movement. I thought it was an earthquake and jumped out of the á window.
5	Sadness, no, I felt something much stronger when my father died.
0	When I was at an official meeting I asked a question to a person. á His response was not directed at me but at the chairman.
2	I felt afraid of losing somebody I love to another person because á I was an incomprehensive person and lots of time I fight with á this person.
1	I met three drunk boys, almost children, they didn't look like á normal people.
0	When friends try to put me down or hurt me.  
1	My brother caught a spider and let his frog eat it.
2	My brother lost his temper and started smashing things in the á house.  I was quite scared, that something terrible might happen, á till the situation was brought under control.
4	When in the end of a semester I got the approval in a matter that á I judged very difficult.
5	My mother died of cancer after a 4 year illness - I think the á most pregnant moment of sadness was the next morning, just as the á sun rose.
0	My roommate was rude to me.
2	I had to call someone and make an appointment for a conversation. á I was very afraid to fail.
3	When I applied for a false travelling claim allowance and later I á thought that I would be found out.
4	I had a very pleasant conversation with one of my friends.
4	Made a wonderfull new friend.
3	I am going steady with a boy, but I had sexual intercourse with á another one, and I felt guilty about it afterwards.
0	Teenage neighbours smashed my letterbox for the fifth time in a á couple of months. It was a deliberate action of kids who had á stayed in my home, had meals there yet took a dislike to my á daughter. 
0	I got angry with a stranger in a train who behaved impertinently á and immorally
6	Felt I had not appreciated my parents enough. Regretted the á problems I'd caused.
6	When I excreted on the mat instead of the potty.
2	Birds had made nests in our thatched roof and they were flying á and flapping their wings in the bedroom at night.  It was very á dark and I could not even see my nose.  I did not know that it á was the birds till my mother told me so.
5	My teacher's death.
1	When I see rotten meat.
6	About a dozen girls laughed at me and I was sure that there was á nothing wrong with me.
6	I was very drunk at a certain wedding party and I got involved in á a fight.
4	When I saw that the mark I had obtained in an exam was a good á one.
1	I saw in an ice-cream kiosque a cockroach walking through a á cornet.
2	One time I set up my journey at night going to a certain bar. On á the way I met my friends and they told me that two people had á died because of heavy fighting. I proceeded on but with fear.
0	When during a social evening with my father, brother, sister, á close friend and my father's 2nd wife - I had an argument with my á father, who abused my friend who was sticking up for me.
4	Good dinner on the National Day.
1	I saw a program on T.V where they had to saw a skull for an        á operation.
2	A relative died.
6	Not having good marks like other people for homeworks.
5	Listening and watching a tape of someone with AIDS being á prejudiced against at a counselling course on AIDS with 20 á others.
6	Once I arrived two hours late to my work place (a bank) and I was á still feeling feeble and tired.
0	My mother told me that I could not go to the mountains.  Despite á my age, as long as I am in her house I must do what she says.
4	My friend told me he really likes me.
4	Talking to a close friend.
6	When we were at home, my husband and I, he made a remark about á something I had done, in a perfectly friendly manner.  My deed á had been unjust and I knew that my husband was right, therefore my á sense of shame.
2	I had worries about a certain illness.
5	I hadn't been at my parent's place for a long time. When I went to á visit them I had high expectations, but when I was there it was á very different from what I expected.
4	"When last year in college I received the award \Best Student of the Year\"", á   I felt very happy as I got what I had wanted and my wish had á been fulfilled.á 1"""
1	Someone I know and respect sexually assulted a girl.
0	Deliberately provoked by someone close. Angered by the á deliberation not the provocation.
3	When I broke up my relationship with my former girlfriend as she á would ask me irrelevant quetions about my past.
6	The mother of a friend of mine passed by me and saw me sitting á on a boy's lap.  I tried to greet her but could not help á blushing.
1	I was dominated by a certain person and even though I knew it I á could not change my own reactions.
0	When I felt being treated unjustly by a teacher.
1	I hate the behaviour of my so called friends, they use bad á language, spit, boast and treat the youngsters badly.
0	I wrote an Exam and happened to have not done as well as I á thought I would. I was angry to myself for not having done so á well.
2	I remember that my form 2 teacher was very fierce and dogmatic.  á My feet would tremble whenever I saw her but I had to face the fact that á I had to go for her class. 
0	Having a fight with a class mate.
1	Whenever I spoke to a female classmate I felt disgusted.  She á said meaningless things and seemed to indicate something to me á but I did not love/like her.
4	Made a wonderful driend who understands me.
2	I was rock-climbing and absailing & felt OK, but suddenly as I á was going over the cliff I was hit by fear - I couldn't go on á absailing down the cliff and had to be actually hauled back up á it.
2	I was alone walking in a deserted part of the city and I had some á fear that some men would attack me and rob me.
1	I was drinking coffee in a cafe and I found a piece of scrubber á in my cup.
3	Inventing a fictitious series of events, as a result of which I á ended up in a conflict with my two closest friends.
3	One day, I was alone on duty when a patient choked while eating.  á I ran to her and tried to make her breath, but it was too late.
4	Finding out that I am not ill (not seriously).
3	"I dated another boy several times, when I was still \going with\"" á my former boyfriend. This made me feel a little bit guilty towards á my friend."""
3	Forced to fill in a questionnaire.
4	Our only elder sister got married and started having pains in her á abdomen and she was told that she could not have children. To our á suprise she had a baby 2 months back.
1	To see damaged lettuce (with worms) in the icebox.
5	When I applied for a job which I thought I had a good chance of á getting, I was not even granted an interview and did not get the á job.
2	One evening a friend of mine was telling a fearful story, nobody á took it seriously but I got frightened.
1	This person I know lied about how much income his parents made á and received money through grants which he did not need. Another á person is barely making it, did not lie, and did not receive á enough money.
3	When I spanked a child in anger and later regretted it terribly.
3	I felt guilty one day when I was accused of running away from á classes and I was caught.
6	When I wore a grotesque figure hanging down my back.
0	[ When I was treated unfairly, regardless of my motives or deeds.]
0	Someone in my family (my brother I suspected) ate a bun which I á had made for myself. It was during a long telephone call after I á had just made it and put it in the oven warming drawer.
2	When I took blood from a patient for alcohol estimation and á urine for some other examination, he told me that something bad á would happen to me as he would play magic on me.
4	The inflammation of the ear of my child got cured and the doctor á said that the ear was completely all right.
5	When felt lonely about writing my family.
0	One of my friends kept criticizing me about everything I did. I á thought she was kidding, but later I found out that she was á serious.
5	When my brother (5th in the family) passed away.
1	Some foreign students playing loud music late at night.
4	When the person that I was very fond of, returned to me.
0	That was what I felt with a teacher who put down quite unreal á marks.
5	Hearing about a friend back home that had to have his stomach á pumped because he had overdosed on pills.
1	A film were a woman was attacked and raped.  One did not see the á worst but it had the desired effect - very strong.
2	One day when I was a little boy, my friends asked me to play á with them outside and to catch some boys.  However our parents á did not know that we were out and when I got home it was very á late and I feared being scolded by my parents.
2	Once I woke up in the middle of the night and felt frightened as á everyone else was sleeping and I could not even go to their á room.
6	When my friend and I were discussing the good looks of a guy we á realized that he had been listening.
1	When I was travelling to school by bus, I went past a place á where a sewer had been repaired.  There was a bad strong smell á which suffocated me and I wanted to leave the place immediately.
3	Very often I take care for my little sister and oversee her á duties. Most of the time everything went fine, but sometimes she á absolutely didn't want to obey; then I hit her (we frequently á were hit by our father).
5	Loss of close relative.
6	When I was given detention at secondary school.
4	I was happy when I understood that the girl I liked was in love á with me.
3	When I noticed the negative changes in a friend's behaviour. 
4	When I saw that I had passed the university entrance exam.  It á made me forget all my problems.
5	After hearing about the death of my grandfather.  First I could á not believe it, but later I wept and felt the situation was á hopeless.  I felt lonely and wanted to be consolated.
3	I was out with a friend in a place where it was very, very busy. á When we wanted to go I bumped a person, who dropped his glass á beer I offered a new one but he didn't accept it.
4	Receiving a very personal letter from a lady that I like, which á revealed that she was more enthusiastic about me than I had á thought possible.
1	I vividly remember having feelings of disgust toward some of my á jr. high classmates who didn't work at all on their schoolwork á and who would coplain and take my tax money when I was older and á more successful than they were. At the time I pictured some á adults like this that I knew in the complaining situation.
0	In traffic I often get relatively angry with other drivers. á Several transgressions make me mad, especially not yielding to á priority traffic (e.g. coming from the right).
0	We were at school, in the room for audiovisual classes.  We were á watching a film, and just behind me two classmates were bothering á me with their mocking and shoves.  I reacted angrily (I suppose)  á by hitting one of them.
6	When parents of a certain girl refused to let me marry their á daughter because I was not fit to do so yet the girl accepted á everything and later she followed what her parents insisted and á she told me never to talk to her again.
5	When I was betrayed by a friend, and decided to stay apart form á her.
6	We where in a bar and my friend had a fight with some guys who á were in the table aside.
0	Seeing this badly made questionnaire.
5	A friend of mine was hurt as he thought that our relationship was á not the same as before and something had gone wrong.
6	When the teacher asked me to read my composition that was the á homework I stood up and invented one because I hadn't done it. A á colleague saw that in my copy book there was nothing written and á he accused me and so I was called in the director's room.
3	[ No response.]
3	My mother accused me of not visiting her enough when she was in á hospital for an eye operation.
5	So as to be closer to the university I have left home and moved á into Auckland. It now seems as if I have left home - especially á my family - forever.
4	Getting a part-time job.
2	I was walking down a road and suddenly a few dogs appeared at a fence á and started barking angrily.  They were jumping and it seemed á that they would come for me any time.
4	[ No response.]
5	When I caused much pain and sorrow to my boyfriend by finishing á our relationship.
6	When as an 8 year old, I wet myself in school.
0	When people without my permission pry in my belongings and take á things out of it.
2	While tramping on a narrow path two of us were confronted by a á woman with two snarling dogs, demanding we get off the property - á via a flooded river !
6	When given responsibility to grade papers in elementary school, I á cheated a little and graded my own higher.
3	Going out with another girl besides my girlfriend and not telling á her.
2	While preparing my master's thesis, I was scared that I would not á accomplish anything as the subject was rather difficult.
0	I was angry when somebody stole my half petticoat.
0	When someone took my things without having asked for my á permission.
0	It happened in a tram: some older people started to grumble about á the young people just because I had not immediately left my seat á to them.
1	For a drunk man (about 20 years old) that I met one evening, and á who behaved impudently with the girls standing by.
1	A young man was insulting and humiliating a drunken man.
0	Heated discussion with spouse concerning new house.
6	In the traffic I insulted a man who crossed my way. Afterwards I á paired with him, and felt shame because of mine lack of pacience á and ridiculous attitude.
3	I escaped from communicating with God for a long time.  I did not á read the scriptures and I did not pray.  I felt that I was á getting further and further away from God.  I felt guilty as this á was because of my laziness.
4	When I was selected to start Form I at Chilumba Secondary School á out of the 100 pupils I was among the 4 who were successful. á Family History showed that I had done better than all my brothers á who had passed after repeating for several times.
1	One of my fellow students used questionable and unfair means to á advance her studies faster than others.  I detested her.
4	When I received the result slip of the higher level examination á (an university entrance exam) and saw that I had a very good á possibility of being accepted into the university, I felt very á excited.
5	When my grandfathers died and I realized how much I would miss á them.
0	When a boy who was drunk came into my room and misbehaved in the á presence of my boyfriend.
5	My friend was pregnant, but lost her child during the second á month. I went to see her at hospital - she was crying. I felt á very sorry for her.
1	When walking along the beach with my boyfriend, we saw 2 people á having sex on the sand dunes in full view of everyone. It was the á fact that they chose that area in which to have sex, that á disgusted me.
2	[ No response.]
1	On boat trip - saw mother giving young child (aprox 6-7 years) á cigarettes.
5	Unrealisation of the desired profession (aviator).
2	When I was going to bring back my girlfriend to LA to meet my á parents.
6	My article not chosen by the college newspaper
6	I talked with a man who stammered and without controlling myself, á I started to talk imitating him.
2	Sometime back, my boyfriend and I were having a walk nearby my á parent's house. Suddenly we met my grandfather and I was á afraid that he would report to my parents.
6	When I got a bad result for one of my assignments.
6	When I fell head on in a fountain.
4	For instance when a girl is interested in me and likes me.
4	My mother, sister and I were thinking about old times, our á childhood, and we had a very happy time.
6	As a child when I was blamed for peeing in the swimming-pool.
4	That was what I felt when I was finally accepted in the Bulgarian á Conservatorie after I had applied a couple of years.
1	I stayed for several weeks with a friend of mine before she moved á to live with her husband. One evening he came drunk and made an á awful scene, which I still remember.
4	When my lover and I felt like we had gone full circle. And our á relationship was new, fresh, vital etc. once again.
5	During the Physics experiment session I did not understand the á content of the experiment and did not know how to do it.
4	When my son was born.
4	When I was accepted as a student at the college, not having á thought it possible.
4	Went to a movie with a date, walked on the beach (in Alameda) á spent some time afterwards in her apt.
3	Once I worked as a designer. A fitter was hard hit in a damage á that occurred at the building site I had designed.
0	My father and I had an argument because I do not help enough at á home.
2	I was sleeping alone in the house at night. A boy putting on a á short only knocked at the window whispering that I should open á for him.
6	When I was tired and unmotivated, I shouted at my girlfriend and á and brought up negative sides of her character which are actually á not so important.
3	A close friend of mine was leaving for graduate school out of á state. I had arranged to gather some people together the day á before he left to be with him and have a good time, but I didn't á pay as much attention to him as I should have.
1	Now that the 49ers are winners, the fans are coming out of the á woodwork and jumping on the bandwagon and that disgusts me.
4	"On our way to France, my girlfriend and I went to Verona. By á chance we met an Italian couple - they gave us two tickets for á the dress-rehearsal of \Aida\"". It was a different world for us á full of fascination. After the representation we ate a phantastic á pizza in a restaurant near the \""Arena\""."""
4	During my first week in Graz I met a girl who I had got to know á in the train from Amsterdam to Graz. Although I had considered á her very sympathetic, we had seperated without changing our á adresses.
4	Achieving my goal at a swim meet. I worked toward the goal for 9 á yrs. I was capable of achieving it, but I didn't know when.
6	While working as a domestic helper, one day I had not cleaned up á very well and they made a remark about it.
0	My grandfather's funeral.
4	"Last night I had a chat with a fellow student.  I had known her á for about half a year, and for the first time we were speaking á \the same language\""- meaning an inspiring discussion and áencounter."""
0	Sometime ago I felt very angry when my mother wrote me telling me á that my elder sister was messing up things at home by her á internalised aggressive attitude towards parents and her husband.
0	When I got into a bus I found that my wallet had been stolen. á It was not a great loss from the monetary point of view but I á lost some documents - identity papers.  As a result I had to á spend several days in order to get a new one.  I will always á remember all the work I had to do and the bad treatment I á suffered because of the bureaucratic behaviour of the civil á servant.  I had already had bad luck and they treated me like a á criminal.   At one point of time I really wanted to quarrel with á them.
0	My fiancee and I were at my parent's place watching TV. There á were  only two TV-chairs and we were sitting on them when my á drunken brother came in and rudely chased my fiancee off the á chair she was sitting on.
6	When I forgot my mother's birthday.
1	When I discovered that the house we had hired in Tonga was full á of cockroaches.
1	I saw a dog who was eating excrements.
2	When two hyenas made crying noise on the window of my bedroom at á home when I was preparing for my MCE examination during the á night.
5	Departure of a very close friend - for a long stay overseas, á sharing in the sorrow of her parents who were left behind.
1	Encouter with a prostitute.
6	[ Generally, when I am late in attending to matters (for example á paying bills).]
5	Treatment to become pregnant with a negative result.
3	Once in my homes yard, I was plaing football with my cousin and á in a certain quick the ball went on uncontrolled putting down a á bird-cage, killing it.
2	I had an accident in which I hurt my eye.  I was afraid of having á injured it badly.
1	The lift of Stockholm central station stank of vomit and urine.
6	I insulted the girl to whom I had proposed when she turned me á down.
1	A drunkard fell, started bleeding and wet himself.  Disgust that á turned into sadness-unpleasantness.
5	When I learnt that my brother-in-law had been poisoned by his á friends and that he was dead.
0	I loved a person and he went away. It wasn't necessary that he á left me to reach his goals.
5	It was on 9th January 1983 when I received a message from home á telling me that my father passed away on the previous day with a á history of cancer of the oesophagus. This time I was doing my á third year of my Secondary School.
4	I feel unbelievably happy about the relationship between my á boyfriend and me, it is a reoccurring feeling.
2	One evening I stayed at home all alone. As we lived on the ground á floor, I was often afraid of burglers.
6	When after having had sexual intercourse with a friend, I thought á that he had told about it to a friend of his.
1	"It is very difficult to relate it to a certain event. I am á familiar with the disgust of Sartre (la nausTe), a frequently á occurring cause may be described as \the self-assured dullness\""."""
0	Unjust punishment of a friend of mine.
3	When I don't go to my parents on Sunday and phone them to tell á them that I have to study. The truth is that I listened to sports á on the radio.
5	I wanted to be pregnant and did not succeed, so I was depressed    á at every menstruation.
5	When you are far away from relatives and friends. I feel sad for á my early years, for the freedom and the carefree years of á childhood.
0	When I heard that an acquaintance of mine was spreading rumours á about my affair with a close friend.
4	Letting Jesus take control of my emotions i.e., ill feeling.
3	"That evening when I opened the songbook while I was singing the á song \Those were the days\"" that guilt feeling became stronger.  á The lyrics described well - I was really wrong.  The wish that I á had made was really bad. If she were with me I would really be á happy and we would play happily together like the days in á secondary school and she would not be disappointed and gloomy á because of me."""
5	When I couldn't find my dog which was missing.
5	At a lack of love of my father for my mum, sadness for him more á than anyone else because he does not realise how much love and á happiness there could be between them, and is, and how much he is á damaging himself apart from mum.
5	When I am alone and listen to a song which I like very much and á which I had listened before together with friends.
6	I wanted my boyfriend to stay when he didn't. He stayed but when á he left I felt ashamed because I should have let him leave when á he wanted. I was too selfish.
3	When I committed the sin of immorality mentioned before.
3	I felt guilty when I lost K43 for my friend when he was arrested.
5	Could not get into the university I wanted to get in.
4	When I found out that the girl, with whom I was in love, loved me á too.
5	My mother was stuck by an apoplectic fit, was hemi-paralyzed and á suffered an aphasia.
2	My friend had been telling me about a certain bird which when it á cries at night it's the sign that someone will die. So one night I á was alone in the house and I heard the cry of the bird and I was á afraid.
1	"I felt disgust with the alcohol, after I happened to see a young á man, who was dead to the world and who wallowed on the pavement. á This \sight\"" I watched from the bus."""
5	When India lost the Benson and Hedges cricket trophy.
3	One evening I went out with some friends of mine, although I was á supposed to stay at home with my little sister who is 11.
6	Comments from other children on my alcoholic father
0	Korean judges cheating.
5	I felt sad when my boyfriend and I were apart for some time.
6	When I was teasing a girl, who turned out to be my brother's á dame.
6	I was watching T.V with my parents and some pornographic scenes á came on, I felt uncomfortable and tried to distract my parents á attention by talking to them.
4	When I saw my family after a separation of one year.
0	When some seniors tried to scold and insult some juniors on á account of what the juniors were supposed to have said at á secondary school.
3	Telling white lies.
1	A teacher gave me lower grades than I was entitled to, and was á hoping for.
2	When I woke up in the middle of the night because of a dream, it á wasn't a nightmare, it was an uninteligible dream in wich I woke á because of a certain end.
3	[ When I break someone's things out of carelessness, or do something  á to make others feel unhappy  or hurt the self-esteem / self-confidence  á of others, especially if they happen to be friends or family members.]
2	The only event I can remember is having a nightmare when I was á very young (3 years old) I dreamt about a machine which was going á to crush me.
3	At my summer job, I was responsible for making various orders.  á It was not me who had ordered some seasonal merchandise, but when á much of it was left over and had to be thrown away in the Autumn, á I felt partly responsible for the much too large order.
1	"When my demand for accomodation on the campus was refused and the á rooms were allotted to first year students who were from \Rucher\"" á and came from influential families."""
0	When I was punished in school for no serious mistake of mine.
3	When I beat up my brother so badly, for not having gone to school, á that we had to take him to hospital.
1	When my relatives troubled me so that I would help them á financially.
0	My cassmate laughed at me when I was being scolded by the á teacher.
5	I would have liked to go out to chat with some acquaintances, but á I realized that I was not wanted.  I felt hurt, disappointed, á lonely and deserted.
0	[ No description.]
0	Insulted by disgusting people.
2	I had to tell someone that I was interested in remaining celibate á and alone. And that my spiritual master strictly prohibited á sexual relations outside of marriage. This caused great fear á through lack of conviction afraid to hurt someone's feelings á despite my own being hurt in the process.
3	When I was in P3 I was always punished as I would forget to do my á homework.  The first time that I was punished and not allowed to á leave school, I slipped out of school.
5	Several years ago my brother died in an accident. When I heard á about it, I was very sad. It took years until I resigned myself á to it.
2	When I witnessed a bus accident in which a bus, full of passengers, á  nearly overturned on the Lusaka-Kabwe road.á 
2	Someone knocked on the door when I was alone at home (though á there was a door bell).  I looked through the peep hole but it á had been covered.  I called my sister but she could not help me á as she was hundreds of kilometres away.
0	Meeting generally dominating persons in social occasions.
1	Class leader getting me to do things he did not want to do.
1	A wurm dropped on my head.
0	When the others did not do their bit of work on a group á assignment task, and I had to do all the work.
6	I feel this emotion very often when I try to express my feelings á in public, because other people do not understand my reactions á and think that I am silly. 
2	Car accident in the middle of the night.
6	"When I found a letter addressed \To Mum\"" by my son, 6 months á later, he begged me not to sell his new shoes which he messed up á after wearing them for the first time."""
2	When it was found that I had gone out of the school premises á without permisssion and at the wrong time.
0	One day my room-mate started imitating me, doing what I had done á a few hours back.  I got very angry and started beating him up.
3	One night, after having decided to finish our relationship, I á took my girlfriend home.  While driving back home, I felt that I á had not handled the whole thing very well.
4	I realized that a fellow member had grown spiritually.  I was the á leader of a spiritual group and had prayed for him.  He did not á want to burn the incense but his mother forced him to do it.  á Finally his mother told him that he could discontinue if he got á good results at school.
1	Political and military trnsgressions around the world, generally á speaking. This cannot be described through this questionaire.
5	When my grandfather died.
6	"My father died 4 years ago, 18 months after my mother died. I á feld my sister was responsible for his death, in that she \hadn't á loved him\"". I felt ashamed for myself, and for my family."""
0	I played chess with my 12-year-old brother. I made a stupid á mistake - and he won!
1	A friend had a quarrel with the mother of her boyfriend because á she and her friend decided to go and live together. She needed á money for removal, then she made a great effort to reconcile.
4	When my boyfriend and I experience something nice or when we have á made a nice walk together.
1	I'm very disgusted when I see people abusing their body with á drugs and alcohol. They take advantage of these things usually á for an excuse for the fantasies which they like and so they do á things stupidly and unjustly.
4	Yesterday, when the final whistle blew at the final match between á OIS and IFK and it was certain that OIS had won the Swedish á title.
0	When someone does not listen to me after having asked me to á repeat what I said. This happened more than one time with the á same person.
1	The sadistinc exacution of a student in the USA.
2	I had this experience of fear when few people were fighting at a á social one night, which one of my relative was involved. My fear á was greatly for him because he was being assaulted badly.
4	One of my friends and I had breakfast in a restaurant. It was á spontaneous and lots of fun.
5	When I failed at the first entrance exam.
0	My father had once again told me that I should be careful and try to á seek admission to other places also apart from the faculty of á Social Sciences at the university of Helsinki.  I was not at all á interested in any other place and had no time to study for other á entrance exams.
3	I did not deliver a message on time.
1	A nightmare.  I was dreaming about bloodsuckers, which I tried to á shake off from my body, they are everywhere, they get glued, they á suck.  And there are a lot of them.  I panic.
5	When a very close friend of mine went into hospital for a major á operation and I couldn't see her for a while as I was not a á relative she had no relatives in N.Z.
1	I felt disgusted when my cousin decided that she would stop á going to school saying she wanted to get married. She was only 14 á years by then and she didn't understand what she was thinking.
1	When my roommate forgets to flush the toilet.
2	Afraid of a dead body.
5	[ When I feel that I have made a mistake.]
2	My episode of fright happened when I came to study.  I had to á stand in front of my still unknown fellow students and talk about á myself.  My hands shook, I flushed and became tongue-tied.
6	When I realized that I belonged to a country which is amongst the á poorest in the world and that inspite of having the resources we á do not utilize them.  I was ashamed at myself and my country, á shame at the lack of parity between the lifestyles of the á citizens.
2	Fear is an emotion that I experience very often.  Naturally this á is during exams and subsequently while waiting for the results.  á However there is one occassion when I was paralyzed with fear.  á This was when I was doing my M.A.-I, and we had a series of student á lectures.  I was one of the participants and my lecture happened á to be the opening lecture.  I had been confident all morning, about á twenty minutes before the lecture, my confidence started failing á me.  I felt my heart go cold, my lips go dry and I was really á paralyzed.  This incident of fear is still fresh.
4	When I met a good friend after a long time. We had had a quarrel á but after two weeks I was really glad to see him again.
6	Badly chosen words to a vague acquaintance of mine made me feel á ashamed at having given the wrong impression about what I wanted á to say.  Thoughtlessness.
5	My living and working conditions at home were unbearable. We used á to live in a three room flat together with two more families. The á discords caused a change - one of the families moved out. The á other family stayed with us but I drifted away from my fiancT. In á fact we were two families in the flat. Then I found myself alone á in the struggle for this life because my fiancT did not stay next á to me my grief and sorrow took on large proportions. I wanted to á commit suicide but instead I threw myself against the cause of á the irritation.
3	That I didn't take the time to make an appointment with someone.
6	When I went out with a friend of mine to meet her ex-boyfriend á who didn't know that she was engaged to be married.
2	When my mother's heart nearly stopped.
1	An officer at the Dean of students office had promised me to give á me a room the next day, but he failed to keep his promise.
1	When a friend didn't invite her own parents to her Graduation á ceremony.
0	A friend suggested in a round-about way that the reason we were á late for something was because of me, and that I'm often late. I á know this was partly true, but felt it unjustified that á particular time and I felt I couldn't do  anything about it á anyway (i.e. being late).
1	I was really disgusted when I saw one of my friends soiling on á his clothes. I thought he was mad.
0	I was angry when my friends said that I should not receive á Nursing Science books because there was a rumour that I was á intending to leave the college.
2	Lost my purse, the money in the purse belonged to my parents.
6	When I blamed my failure to the bias and favouritism in the        á marking system, in fact I had not worked hard enough.
6	During the English lesson we were required to do a play.  A few á days after doing it the teacher asked us to do it again at a meeting  á and I forgot my part.
6	Insulted by somebody.
0	Being treated unfairly.
1	Hear people talking at my back.
2	I went to the apartment of my boyfriend and saw some people á before his door. I thought that something had happened.
2	Was threatened with a knife ... in the military by soldiers form á another unit. The reason was girls.
1	I made friends with a classmate whose behaviour I did not like - á he tried to flatter other people and did not respect me.
3	When I took the car of someone without saying it to him.
4	When my husband suddenly came to see me at my new job and á brought some flowers and cake with him.
5	Finding out that my best friend could not go to university.
0	When I heard that my girlfriend was talking behind my back and á looking down on me.
1	A woman picked her nose and spit right next to me.
1	Noisy people in the library.
3	Due to laziness, I failed the term studies completely at á University.  I also wanted, to some extent, to protest against my á parents' expectations.
6	When I stole a packet of cigarettes from a neighbour  and the á next day I owned up and returned it.
4	When the girl with whom I am in love smiles at me.
2	We were driving a car of a friend of mine when we turned in the á wrong direction towards an unknown district, and nearly drove á down a precipice.
6	"I fell on the ground while crossing the street.  My cap covered á my eyes and I felt quite \difficult\""."""
4	When I realised that I was forgiven by the God who is there, when á I realised how much God loves me and that my acceptance with him á is not based on my performance - that he loves me unconditionally á and showed that love in Christ who died because I do need á forgiveness.
4	To have a friend who I didn't see for months, and under the á circumstances that I met him made me feel happy, and perhaps á because it has been one of the good things that I learned with á this friend.
2	One night we were having a barbecue on the beach and I needed to á go to my car, which was far away from the beach.  It was very á dark as there were no street lamps.  I ran in the dark, very á scared, I ran as fast as possible.
2	"Many years ago I saw the film \Psycho\"" by Hitchcock for the first á time. When I saw the film I was alone and afterwards I hardly á dared to go to bed and hardly was able to sleep."""
1	I was disgusted at the behavior of these boys I work with in the á scouting program. They showed a lack of interest, unrest, and at á times just plain rude behavior.
2	Attempted rape by 5 guys - held my arms behind my back and á molested me, constantly threatening to beat me. Penetration did á not occur as the driver of the car stopped that.
5	One day I came across a certain boy who was intruding my á friendship as lovers with my girlfriend and I was very sad á because I didn't expect that girl to disappoint me I regarded her á as being very faithful.
2	Once while crossing a road I was overcome with fear.
4	Hearing my girlfriend accept my offer of marriage.
2	Every time I meet a certain dog that has once bitten me.
0	When my mother quarrelled with my aunt over me.
4	When I was accepted for my third year (G-10) at my former á secondary school.
5	I was very sad when I heard that my brother had failed the á standard 8 exams for the third time.
0	"Attitude to some manners of dealing and some \sanctioned\"" á relations."""
0	My parents do not like my friend and told me not to go out with á him.
5	A child beaten up by his mother.
1	Was confronted with a person having negative thoughts of other á people because of their social status, beliefs, color and á outlook on life (perspective).
4	When I passed the grade 7 exam.
3	When I was a child I used to play with my cousin gushing wather á to each other in front of the door of my house. One day we á decided to gush with on a passing car. The driver stopped and á went to discuss with my mother and my aunt that were there.
4	In Southern Tyrol, I was gathering apples, it was a fine day, I á was not thinking about anything, I felt an overwhelming joy.
6	I complained about a colleague's behaviour as she goes back on á her word, is often absent and is irresponsible.  I found out that á she was an alcoholic and was trying to fight againt her á addiction.
2	Getting ill.
0	When a friend wouldn't speak to me and wouldn't tell me why.
6	At a cross-country race I wanted to take a short-cut (which is á not allowed). I was caught and disqualified. All my friends had á observed that.
2	Once, when I was very young, my mother left me alone in the á house and came back very late.
3	A situation where I stole a friends wife's wallet.
4	I received a letter from a distant friend.
5	Passing away of my father.
6	I was to take part in a cocktail party on the occasion of our á national holiday as a servant.
4	When I was selected to start Form I at Malosa Secondary school.
0	My sister came back home and reproached me for not having tidied á up the house, although I had been working all morning and she had á done nothing.
2	Watched a horror movie which involved sexual attacks on women.
5	I was alone in my parents' house, having made plans to spend the á afternoon with a lover (plans which the lover cancelled), á watching a movie and considering my life and circumstances - á pressures of examinations in particular.
5	My mother unjustly became very angry with me and sent me to my á room while my father explained that the way she saw things was á not correct. I had done things with the best intentions.
4	A recurrent lovesickness.
4	When two female classmates and I were having lunch, we chatted and  á cracked jokes, I was very happy.  However, I felt that I may have  á said something inappropriate which might cause them to have a bad  á impression of me.
0	At work being shifted to another area.
5	I was very sad when my first boyfriend finished our relationship.
3	One day I shouted at my brother who didn't do any wrong to me á only that I had a disappointment from a friend and projected it á on to him. He cried and I felt guilty after sometime.
0	When they changed my office to another room without my agreement.
3	At work a boy was injured because of my lack of supervision.
2	That if ever I was really naughty I would be sent away from my á Mum and Dad to another family. I was fostered from age 5 and á didn't get to Mum and Dad until I was 6 and then legally adopted á at 14.
0	I confronted with this feeling at the Institute quite recently, á the pedology lecturer was the cause.
0	When an English teacher unfairly made me repeat a semester which á I thought I had passed.  I had to ask my parents for some more á money to carry on studying.
2	Before the first examn.
6	When I do something unworthy.
3	Reported neighbour to police for taking to my daughter with á baseball ball - her counsellor rang me and after long talk á convinced me the woman was o.k. I felt guilty for ringing the á police then guilty for feeling guilty about it.
0	When I tried to breake it up with my boyfriend, and he refused to á let me go.
3	When I had a little accident with my boss'car.
0	My family told me to leave if I was not willing to accept the á conditions they imposed on me.
2	When I was bringing in the shopping and nearly stood on a snake.
1	I felt disgusted while studying for my applied psychology and á mental testing papers in B.A.
2	Staying alone in the dark.
4	My parents came to visit me.
4	I got a fairly large amount of my taxes back.
5	My father gave money to my brother but not to me.
2	When my brother hit his head and lost consciousness at the sports á practice.  For some time he could not remember what had happened á but he recovered later.
4	I experienced this feeling when I was accepted as a student. á Because everything turned out different from my expectations. á Although I passed the exam successfully I was accepted as a á student only when I didn't expect it at all, namely at the á beginning of September.
3	When I got fired from a job because I gave a discount to a á friend.
1	Old man in hospital, hollow-cheeked, only one half of his nose á and glass-eye, rattling breath.
5	When my grandmother died of cancer.
3	"I was involved in a ... attempt on a man I had developed a close á warming relationship with. Although I knew I had done everything á I could and that his progress of a \normal\"" life was poor I felt á guilty as if I could have done more."""
6	The discovery that one has only thought of oneself.
6	When I had slept with a boy for the first time I felt ashamed for á three reasons. First, because I was only 13 years old, second, á because I did not really like him, third, because he had caught á me napping.
5	I did not do as well as I expected on a chemistry exam. I á received a score below the average and I thought I had done very á well.
0	I was not given a chance to explain to my close relatives as to á why I could not go to visit them when they were ill.  When I did á go, they thought that I had been selfish and irresponsible duringá their illness.
2	I remember when I was a child of a storm that made me terribly á afraid. I thought that the house was coming down and that in the á next day I would be dead. Everybody was awake and I stayed all á night in bed without falling asleep.
4	I was happy to hear that my sister had won a prize at running á competition.
1	When I was reading a book.  It had nothing to do with the book á itself but with the disagreable smell of the pages of the book.
2	"A gang of screaming and drunk youths \captured\"" a tram."""
0	A girl whom I trusted and with whom I had shared personal, confidential á matters twisted the facts and told it to a common friend of ours. á  When this common friend told me the version my friend had told á her, I was angry.
3	Being aggressive against members of my family.
4	When I saw that I had passed an exam.  It was the last chance and á there was a lot at stake.
2	Small car accident. Black ice on the road - cars in front of us á started zig-zagging and so did we. Car in front did a 180¦ turn we á followed and ended up in a gully.
2	I had gone for a medical check-up at the U.T.H and failed to make á it back on time for the C119 practical sessions at 1400 hours á last academic year.
5	When my father was imprisoned for burning the house of his á younger brother.
5	My father's death in January 1983 moved me deeply.  The gloom á prevailed for almost two years and I am still to recover from it.
5	When I knew I had to go out with my mother on some errands.
4	When I fell in love.
2	after getting a fail notice for a math class, I realized I was á not doing very well in school in any subject. I began to fear á failing a class or two.
5	Not getting the reference paper.
3	When I was a child I often quarrelled with my younger sister. á Once I became so angry that I slapped her in the face. She cried á and shouted so that my mother came in and scolded me.
1	When I went to visit a relative and saw how messy and dirty his á place was, in the absence of his wife.
6	Once in primary five, I had forgotten to take a book to class and á the teacher punished me by asking me to stand at the back of the á class.  I thought about the way my mother would react if she saw á me being punished.  My mother was very good to me and though she á did not see me punished, I felt sorry for her.
3	I was drunk one night and I insulted three ladies.  The following á morning they approached me and asked me the reason behind my á bahaviour, I apologized for my unruly behaviour.
0	When, after drinking a glass of water, I found a cockroach walking á out of the glass.
0	When a certain boy went about saying that I am his girlfriend. I á wrote him an insulting letter to him and called him names.
0	Somebody took my wristwatch and promised to have it mended and á later was telling me that he couldn't give it back to me because I was á rude at a certain time.
5	We went to visit my mother at the residence.  She was crying and á said that she was about to die.  I believed all her complaints á and continously thought of the possibility of loosing her.
3	My roommate got married and invited me to share a flat with them. á But with a young couple there should not be a third person. I am á to blame for not following the advise of the others, but it is á not late still.
3	A good friend of mine who is at the moment in a foreign country. á I didn't write her for several months and now I feel guilty.
0	I moved to a flat. A friend who had lived there before, had left á the flat in a terrible mess. I was very angry about that á sloppiness and impudence.
2	When I was jumped by three men in a deserted area.
1	I have felt this feeling when a person whom I believe and respect, á lied to me.
0	I read in the newspaper that the Student Lodging Fund was going á to build new appartments for refugees (in my opinion this is the á state's affair).  This is when only a fractoin of the students á can find an appartment.
4	When I got first division in the exams before leaving school.
6	I felt shame when I didn't study enough for my exams and as a á result I failed. I then invented idle stories to talk it good for á myself and the others.
0	My mother was ill and asked me to prpare our lunch. I went to do it, á and while I was working, she stayed behind me telling what I á had, or not to do. I asked her to stop meddling, and to go to á bed. When I went to ask for help to my sister, my mother said that á I was proud, that I asked for help only when I wanted and that I á wasn't able to cook by myself.
5	My boyfriend is a soldier. He was on a leave. I felt sad when we á had to get separated again.
4	"I am a sportwoman as well. I felt joy when after an year of á practice, at a contest, I covered the norms for \a master of sports\""."""
3	Leaving home when my mother thought I had no reason to go and á felt that I was rejecting her. She is a constantly depressed á person (a bit of a worry-wort) and I felt guilty about having á given her this additonal problem.
1	When I was getting so fat.
1	When someone makes advances that one does not want.
6	When a close friend entrusted me with a secret and I let the cat á out of the bag.
5	It happened when I lost two very intimate friends in a car á accident.
1	Pictures of Nazi extermination camps on a T.V program.
3	Did not do what I promised to do for a friend.
0	When a classmate hit me on my occipital region when I was busy á studying and concentrating on my classnotes.
4	I spent a lovely relaxing evening with my boyfriend. We played á games and talked all evening.
3	I cheated my boyfriend.
5	When a close friend died.
3	I had a small argument with a relative and some other people got á implicated.  It resulted in a proper row.
4	Celebrations on the graduation day with the orchestra playing in á the garden ( I am a part of this orchestra).
6	When the literature teacher made me recite a poem in the middle á of the class and I had to gesticulate.
6	As a child - being sent to the shop by mother - buying some á chocolate - getting caught by mother.
3	Lately I've felt guilty because I'm folling behind in my classes á and not studying much.
5	I feel sadness from the fact that I was not born with a better á appearance.
0	I felt angry when I failed in an exam about which I knew quite a á few things and I did not deserve to be plucked.
0	I sent a book to a friend of mine.  The book meant a lot to me á and he lost it.
3	I forgot to convey an important announcement.
4	A meeting with the family and the friends I felt dear and loved, á sharing the gladness of being together at a birthday.
4	China winning the Asian Olympic games (TV).
6	When I was young my mother told the neighbour that I had wet the á bed.  I felt ashamed thinking that the neighbour's children would á get to know about it.
6	We had arranged a beach party with 20 people. There my father got á drunk I felt very ashamed.
3	Forgot to collect post for a friend.
3	I had a date with a boy, but I didn't feel liked, and didn't go, á I wasn't home purposely at the time we arranged.
5	When I failed one of my courses at school - the university of á Zambia.
6	I came home from school very keyed up. At the dinner table I á unfortunately unloaded a lot of my hostility off on one of my á parents. I'm ashamed that I didn't dispate and control these á feelings before coming to the table or even let the energy build á up in the first place.
5	When I try to get closer at a person and she misinterpreted me.
1	When I learnt that my cousin sister was pregnant.
1	Watching an alcoholic woman who was approaching everyone at the á wharf for cigarettes - a prostitute in Auckland (elderly).
3	I was looking after my cousin's little daughter; she fell down, á was slightly injured and cried vociferously.
4	A boy I had been admiring so much asked me to go out with him.
2	I confronted a bigger person than I and almost got into a fight.
3	NO RESPONSE.
6	At a meeting with over one hundred people, they decided who had to speak á from the stand by drawing lots.
3	Once I quarrelled with my sister and after this I deliberately á messed up her belongings.
4	After my girl and I talked things over our relationship changed á and became positive.  A diificult time turned into pleasant one.
3	While trying to get my little brother over a ditch, he fell on á his head and started crying.  I was scared of having caused him á permanent injury.
5	When I lost my grandmother.  She had been my guardian after the á death of my father.
0	When I did not find the rack used for beating up rugs, in the á yard.
0	I feel it when I see that somebody is traying to made a stupid of á me.
3	A girl dropped some stuff from her bag and when I tried to help á her I realized that she had used me and I was made to look like a á fool.
3	Finding out that I have misunderstood other people.
4	I can't give one description here. I often feel joyful when I á have done things good in relation to other people especially when á my friend says he loves me and I also tell him that I love him.
6	I was angry about 3 months ago and I kicked backwards against the á wall. It caved in and so I had to show it to my parents. I had á been angry after my mother said something to me about not being á able to find clothes in my size - something that I'm sensitive á about. (6' 5'' 210)
3	With a group of handicapped people we went to a party. When we á wanted to leave we were not able to find one of these people. I á had told his mother that we would leave at 4.30 p.m., actually it á was planned for 3.30 p.m. Therefore there was a delay.
5	When I had not understood anything after a lecture.
2	One night I had to bike home all alone after a party. Then I á found out that I was pursued by a man in a car.
2	I lived alone in a repulsive area in the city of Rotterdam. I was á annoyed, heard a lot of Burglary and assaults. Especially in the evening á and the night I frequently felt anxious.
6	I had been rude to my mother at a time when she needed á comforting, not anger (death of my sister).
4	When seeing a friend that I had not seen in a long while.
1	When I read racist slogans on the walls.
6	When I lied to my best friend about a boy she really liked but he á didn't like her. I told her he did and she bugged him for a long á time embarrassing herself.
5	When I was told that my friend's wife had cancer.
4	When I went to a job interview, I met a person who was very nice, á and his attitude made me glad.
6	One day I addressed my husband in an abusive manner in front of á his friends.  Later on I realized this myself and felt ashamed of á myself.
1	Not applicable.
3	[ No response.]
2	I felt very frightened when a robber broke into our house and á threatened to shoot my father if he did not part with some money. á  I was looking at the man with his hand on the trigger.
5	I received a letter from my grandmother. She has obviusly á suffered a lot from my grandfather's suffering health. She á mentioned things she had gotten him and he would never use.
1	My friends aren't working for the same common goal we all need to á accomplish.
6	A good friend of mine told me in comfidence that once he had á tried to commit suicide. To meet him you wouldn't think so. I á told another friend of mine about this when she was feeling á depressed about her twin brother's suicide. I broke a bond of á confidentiality.
3	I felt guilty when I spent a night at my boyfriend's place, á particularly because I had been harsh and spiteful when I had á left home.  The reason was that I feared a possible discussion on á the subject and I wanted to leave defiantly.
3	When I think about my family (parents, brothers, sisters) guilt á is a part of my feelings.
1	"I broke an egg, with which there was something wrong, into a á little cup. There was a thick white \wad\"" in it. I tried to take á it out and throw it in the sink."""
1	When I see the acts and deeds of a blind drunk man.
5	My father told me in the letter that my mother is ill.
6	A customer at the shop where I worked came in and asked if the á goods that he had ordered had arrived.  I had totally á forgotten about this order and I tried to offer weak excuses.
4	The day I was told that I had been accepted as a student of á economics.
2	A few weeks back I had a very important seminar and I had á circulated my papers to all the panel members.  A day before the á seminar I realized that I had inadvertantly burdened certain       á derivations and I had failed to correct it.  I feared that this    á would reflect very badly on my performance.  Fortunately none of  á the panel members detected it and I felt relieved.
5	My cat died from an illness.  It had been with us for 7 years.  á It was a lovely cat.  It had been ill for one or two weeks and á the veterinary surgeon had told us that it was dying.
3	Being catched when stealing.
5	I knew a girl so lovely that everyone would like her.  But she á refused to accept my Christmas present and I tried to forget á her.
3	[ No response.]
0	My best friend betrayed me and told other people my secrets.
4	Joining in a research group studying consumer's behaviour and á helping the people in the shop with the sales.
3	When I am dishonest to a friend to whom I am very close.  I á feel guilty because I know that he gives a different version of á the truth and I have not corrected these mistakes, and he is á aware that I know that they are wrong.
0	When I found my boyfriend, who I had been dating for a year, at á another girl's house. We had had previous conflicts concerning á the girl, but he had always claimed they were just friends.
2	[ No response.]
4	When I met a girl and asked her for a date and she agreed, (I á thought this girl would never like me), this was an emotion of á joy.
1	When an untidy and heavyly drunk person made endeavours to á approach me.
3	After having told an authority figure a very large lie I was told á she believed me, because she believed I had never lied to her. 
3	When I told my boy-friend, who loved me very much, that I wanted á to put an end to our relationship. a long time before I told him á that and also a long time after that I felt guilty, because I had á hurt him so much.
0	At a certain situation I felt myself neglected and undeservedly á harmed.
4	I thought that I was going to fail a subject and so I began to á study for the final exam, then my friend told me that I had á passed it.  That meant that I could go home, as I do not study in á my hometown.
4	My son was registered to get admission in grade one of the         á primary school.  The chances of him getting a place there was 1/10.  á Two weeks later I was informed that he had been enrolled.
5	Death of brother.
1	When I saw a scene on T.V where a castration was shown.
0	At an undeserved attitude toward a man, when human personality is á not treated decently.
5	My favourite horse died. We had tried our best to save him, but á it was hopeless, he had to be shot.
4	When I spoke to my daughter and wished her luck for the á examinations she was about to take.
0	[ No response.]
2	I was teaching someone to drive and when we were about to crash I á was scared.
3	When I told the driver at my workplace to lie and tell the boss á that it was not me who was responsible for the delay.  The boss á was very annoyed and the driver was punished and a day's salary á was taken away from him.
0	When someone does something wrong which affects me negatively.
4	I'm glad when I have good relations with my colleagues and most á of all when we are at a party.
0	After a hard day at the university I also had to make dinner that á evening. It failed because of a frying pan which broke.
6	A teacher spent a lot of time helping me without wanting to be á paid for it. For the exam I didn't got a good grade and I felt á ashamed.
6	Some men were talking about me and my sister.
3	I had a quarrel with near persons. I said many ill-considered á things and I regretted it when it was to late.
3	When a mistake occurred at work which I was not responsible for.  á This was disclosed later.
5	I had a very short term romance during the summer vacations.  When á we first met I felt excited but I wanted to avoid him after we had met á a few times and so I proposed that we stay apart, I felt very á sad then.
0	When I got the feeling that I had to do all the housekeeping á while my boyfriend didn't do anything. This happened in a period á of exams when I had to study very hard.
1	Can't remember any such feelings now.
2	A man in a car was following me when I went running early one á morning in a fairly secluded area.
6	I feel shame mixed with anger with the behavior of some á incultivated people because my fiancT is a foreigner.
2	I stayed alone in the dark at night in the mountain, waiting for á my uncle.  I remember that I took a big stone and it calmed me.
0	This happened recently, I  was in the dining hall and one of my á friends with whom I was eating called me a fool.
3	When my husband talked about the restrictions he will have to á accept in his life to make our marriage work.  I felt that it was á directed at me as it was me who had demanded the changes.  We á were with a marriage counsellor then.
1	When I was presumed to have stolen maize from the school garden.
5	My sister won a scholarship to Norway and it was particularly as á she walked across the tarmac to get on the plane and she looked á back at us.
1	I saw a man falling on the walkway. He seemed half dead, and was á immobile. I felt disgust for the people who passed by without á doing anything to help.
6	The day my boyfriend saw and touched my breasts when I was á without my shirt, only with my pants.
5	When my friends died one after the other.  The first died in a á car accident and the second one recently, due to an illness.
5	After my little sister's Graduation from High School my á grandmother became very sick. She passed away a few months later.
3	When I had to lie about my age to be accepted as a member of a á group.
1	When one learns through the mass media all the wars and killing á going on in the world.
0	Bus conductor insulted me for not buying a ticket (I forgot).
2	Before an important examn.
0	I had arranged with a friend to go with him to Carinthia by car. á We had arranged a place where to meet. I was a bit late and my á friend had left already. I had no money to go by train. I nearly á started to cry because I was so angry - it was very important for á me to go to Carinthia.
5	When they told me that my grandfather was rather ill.
0	In a course I thought that I deserved good marks but I only got á ordinary marks with no justification as to why I was given these á marks.
3	When I was caught with my girlfriend in the house at night.
5	When I found that my ability to do ordinary work was worse than á my fellow mates.
5	Death of my father.
0	[ For example, unfair pushing in a bus.]
2	As I was taking venous blood from another patient I introduced á air into the place of puncturing and there was a swelling which á is dangerous to the patient hence I became afraid.
5	My son lives with my parents in the country and I feel this á feeling always when leaving for Sofia, but the last time it was á quite strong.
4	Having passed the exam required to be an authorized Radio/TV á dealer.
2	Finding out that a boy I do not like is in love with me.
5	Finding out that the university will give first priority to á qualified practioners and clinical years to go to your English á lectures.
1	When I see pornographic films.
6	We were writing Primary school leaving Examinations when I had á fallen at the steps going into the Exam room.
3	I hated you for not letting me go and found out that it was not á your decision.
5	When we decided, my boyfriend and I, that we would separate, I á realized that he would have wanted to continue our relationship á and the coming separation hurt him.
2	When I stayed alone in a house in Great Brittain and there was a á lot of rumour in the newspaper about a murderer still being free.
1	When my sister's boyfriend accused her of having been sleeping around.
3	Before going to school I usually take something to eat right at á school and this time I took Father's money without him knowing á it. I felt guilty and I returned the money.
4	A person whom I had not seen for a long time called me and á invited me for a party.
6	[ Do not remember any incident.]
6	I feel shame when sometimes, (unconsciously) I behave unethically á and without understanding the problems of the man I love.
3	Decided at the last minute not to do something that I said I á would do with a person.
5	When my boyfriend almost had a relationship with a close friend á of mine.
3	"Boyfriend doing cleaning in situation where it was my job to do á it. Later snapped at him over trivial thing. He looked downcast. á I felt guilty - \he's just done all that work for me\""."""
5	When my father passed away of cancer, I was extremely saddened. á He was not very old, which made matters worse. The actual death á was horrendous, but the moving funeral saddened me more so.
1	When I became aware that an acquaintance had stolen from friends.
6	While shopping, a person close to us created an uncomfortable á situation for those who were with her.
1	In a study group, a person always liked to argue on some á unimportant, irrelevant and minor points.  He tried to persuade    á others in an unfriendly way.  He was obstinate and would not accept  á other's point of view.
5	Saw poverty in the countryside.
3	A few lies that I had indulged in, a few years ago, while raising á loans from my friends.
5	My grandfather died, when I was an exchange student in the USA.
5	In the 12/83 my boyfriend asked me to forget him, as it would be á easy.
5	When I failed a test at my primary school.  I was then in grade 7 á and we were about to take the main exam.
0	If they force me to eat something I don't like. For example, my á parents always twaddle and whine, when I don't eat all the food.
6	When I did something naughty and it lead to the embarrassment of á my parents.
4	After a long time I saw my boy-friend again. 
5	A horse which I had liked very much was taken away.
3	"[ No answer as I see very little difference between shame and á guilt.  Therefore see answer for \shame\"".]"""
3	Guilt after fighting with my sister (for) telling her how bad she á was.
5	A friend of mine told me that my boyfriend had been with another á girl this Summer.  We had been going out together for four years á and we had not done so for the last three months.  I could not á believe it.
4	When passing the final examinations for social worker.
2	I overturned in a canoe a few years back and I didn't know how to á swim. Although I had a life-jacket on I still panicked.
0	I was angry when someone stole a magazine which I had borrowed á from another friend and locked it in a drawer.
6	I was in a very small class and the professor said something á about me that made everyone look at me at the same time.
6	I was ashamed when my boyfriend went to sit with another girl á when he invited me to come to watch Drama festival.
6	When I almost did something awful with a friend of mine and á myself.
1	A fellow student who seemed very nice later on proved to be a á slimy fellow towards a professor.
2	I was bitten by a dog.
0	My parents are divorced, father pays alimony for me. Two years á ago my sister who lives with father, suddenly asked mother for á money. As she considered the amount of money my mother offered á her too small, she brought an action against mother. I was á terribly angry with my sister.
4	My best friend chosen for your English lectures.
4	Finding out that I can go to your English lectures.
1	Such a feeling springs up in me sometimes when I have meals at a á catering establishment. It is a result either of the look of the á food or when watching the way some people eat.
0	Receiving personal criticisms early in the morning.
3	Accidentally dropped a friends camera flash, so that it was á broken.
6	When I realized that I had been wrong about a person close to me, á because of pre-set ideas and prejudices.
1	I came across a woman in town who was very drunk.  She was á swearing at everyone and carried on drinking even though she á could hardly stand.
1	When I lose on my bets on anything - baseball, football, á basketball, track, craps, poker, or arcade - whether its 5 á dollars or 200 I feel that I should never have done it in the á first place.
1	When a girl that I liked didn't accept my curting.
2	I had the window open and the door was shut so that the kitten á would not go out.  My partner came in and started talking about á something and I forgot about the window and suddenly I saw the á kitten hanging from the window frame. I was rigid with fright á till I got hold of her.
6	During a family reunion, they started talking about me wearing an á ear-ring.
5	Being sexually assulted and told my friends about it (we cried á together).
5	When I was eight years old my father was run over by a car. When á I saw his body I was sad beyond words.
2	I studied medicine for several semesters and at that time I á developed a great fear of examinations. I was most afraid of my á examination of anatomy. While other students were examined, I was á dissecting. I was able to hear everything and was waiting with á fear until it was my turn.
6	Since I've been here I haven't written to any of my relatives. I got á a letter from my mom telling me how upset my grandparents are á from not hearing from me.
5	"Upon moving away from home for the first time to a different á city, I felt no longer \under the wing\"" of my parents even though á they would always be there to help me. I felt a sense of loss, I á was now all alone in the world, responsible for my own actions."""
3	Failed to keep an appointment.
0	I came home one day and discovered that my sister had borrowed my á car and had gotten into an accident with it. My entire front á bumper was destroyed.
3	I left a boy with whom I was going around without giving him any á explanations.
2	When a good friend of mine behaved in a very cool manner to me á for a very long time.
0	I had been in love with a certain young man who pretended to love á me but one day I found out that he had another girlfriend who was á also a friend of mine.
1	"I watched the news at the TV, it was a commentary about á \Hainburg\"". I felt disgusted when I heard members of the union á speak about the situation."""
1	A drunk man bumped into me and wanted to grip me. Fortunately I á was able to break loose.
2	Once I failed seven subjects at school and I was terrified to á give my report card to my father.  I left it on the table and went to á bed very early in order to avoid him seeing me.
5	When I took the B.A exams,I was expecting a 1st class even though á I had not done very well. When the results came out I felt sad as á I had missed the 1st class by 12 marks.
5	After I had lived with my boyfriend in a foreign country for half á a year, I saw that it was impossible for me to stay with him (for á economic reasons). We separated although I loved him.
4	While having a discussion with a colleague of mine, I realized that her á conception of man and work were similar to mine.
3	I encouraged my brother to play football and he was hurt while á playing the game.
4	When I received the letter informing that I had been accepted to á be a Chinese university student, I was excited as I had longed á for it.
2	This feeling I sensed quite recently. It was arisen by the á terrific thought that I might lose the man I loved !
1	I went to a party with my boyfriend who got so drunk and started á vomiting. It was so disgusting.
6	For a medical check-up, we - boys and girls - had to take off our á clothes with the exception of our underwear. Then we had to go á into another classroom where older pupils were sitting and á staring at us.
2	I could have been killed by a falling object.
4	I finished my homework; an important task.
2	When my friend was involved in a car accident.
4	I was doing an experiment and was not getting the appropriate á result despite the fact that I had repeated the procedure 4-5 á times.  Then finally I got it right by a stroke of luck.
6	[ No response.]
0	I share my small flat with my friend. On her birthday we could á not see each other until evening because we had to stay at the á University all day. In the evening I left a lecture before it á finished to be able to buy flowers for her. When I was at home á she called me to tell me that she would stay the night with her á boyfriend.
5	When a friend of mine died in a hiking accident.  I was not á present there and only got the news later.
4	When I passed the whole weekend with my boyfriend, coming back á home on Sunday afternoon he met my parents for the first time.
0	When I was at S.Y.Bajaj I wanted to get admission in another á college and this was not easy and I felt angry. 
6	NO RESPONSE.
0	A classmate told me I must have bribed the class leader to let me á go to your English lecture.
6	The first time I slept at my boyfriends house and had to walk á down the hall to the shower in front of his housemates. I felt á they were judging me.
4	Receiving a letter from a boy I care.
5	Failing an examination.
6	When bathing at surf beach & lost togs.
6	I feel ashamed when I am praised.
0	A friend had promised to get me a book which was very important á for my work, but she forgot it.
6	I had reacted angrily at a friend for no fault of his.  I had á raised my voice and had not cared for his opinion.
3	When I fought with my sister and said that she had provoked this. á She was very seriously scolded.
3	When my boyfriend was away, I flirted with his best friend; I á felt guilty the next day.
5	A younger brother of a good friend of mine died (asthma).
0	At a restaurant I observed how the gypsies tried to get money by á cheating the foreigners i.e non Swedish speaking.  My anger had á nothing to do with hatred against foreigners, but it was an á expression of the anger I feel when I see people being used .
3	Once after falling in love, I imagined that particular girl to be á perfect and completely overshadowing my girlfriend. Afterwards I á realized that this image was not objective. I felt guilty against á both girls.
2	I was on this amusement park ride at Marriots Great America. It á went way up in the air and then around and around. Heights are á not my favorite spots in life.
0	When bicycling along, a courier van started to tail me very close á - I sped up and moved over and he just did the same. I reacted á violently, much physical responding in the dangerous situation.
3	I was very angry with a girlfriend for interferring a little too á much with my personal affairs. I told her so rather strongly and á she started crying.
4	"I have a boyfriend and I am very fond of him. When we had our á \11-months jubilee\"", I had forgotten it. But he gave me a red á rose."""
5	I was very sad when I had to leave persons with whom I had a very á intense relationship I also had to leave the environment which á was part of this.
2	When I was told that my daughter, who is at a boarding school, á was very ill and that they needed me there the same day.
1	The event which got me angry got also an aversion in me.
3	[ The same as in shame.]
4	I felt joy when I entered at the University.
6	Not finishing my duty as a class leader.
6	Fighting with my father while drunk.
1	Disgust at myself when I stroked a sleeping girl's private parts.
2	When I was told that the form five results were out.
5	To say goodbye to dear friends after the holidays.
1	Bad temper of the serving lady in the students' dining hall.
3	One night, I went out with some friends for dinner and I did not á tell my parents that I would come back late.  I thought of á phoning but in the end I did not.  When I arrived home, my á parents were very worried.
3	When the student union leaders were expelled from the university á and we continued to study.
4	When finally I found a place to live, I felt relieved, predicting á changes in my life, and I became happy.
5	It was in the evening when I heard that my girl went to Zambia á and that she would never come back.
6	After having quarelled unnecessarily and without any reason, and á having been stupidly cross in every way.
6	We got into a fight with some chaps in front of our family house. á The value of the property destroyed was approximately 15 000 FIM. á I felt ashamed when my parents came to know about this.
5	When someone I was close to became a paranoid schizophrenic and I á was unable to see this person because of the situation.
4	When I received a letter from the university telling me that my á application had been accepted.
1	In school I had difficulties mith mathematics. When I had to work á for an examination, I really felt disgusted.
1	There was a family fight in my house some time back.  My uncle á had given me a watch as a present and I lost it.  During the á fight he accused me of having sold the watch.  I was disgusted at á his false accusations.
3	I got up late and I could not go to my lessons on time.  When I á entered the class room the stare of the teacher and my classmates á made me feel guilty.
3	The results of the mid term examinations were very poor.
5	My best friend could not get into university.
6	When I was young, about 6 or 7, I did not make it to the toilet á on time.  I hid the dirty trousers in the cellar as I feared itá being discovered by my parents.
3	When a classmate wanted to sit down, I pulled his chair away, so á that he was slightly injured.
4	The birth of my first child.
5	A close friend travelled to another country. When I knew that he á would only come back after many years, I felt very sad.
6	When I ate my sister's food and then she found out that it was á me.  I felt very ashamed but still refused to admit that it was á me.
6	[ No response.]
3	I had been guilty of gossiping and blaming others, and one of my á superiors at the workplace made a formal reprimand.
3	I was living at home during the Summer vacations and towards the á end decided to take some of my clothes and other belongings to á the appartment in Guttenburg.  When I had finished I went to my á ex-boyfriend's (relationship uncertain) home and stayed there á till 5 A.M.  I had to leave then as my parents needed the car for á work in the morning.  My parents do not like my boyfriend.
4	When I got permission to study at a place which was far away from my á home.
4	Getting a phone call from a very old friend.
3	My uncle had promised to buy me a bicycle. As time went by and I á had not received it yet, I asked my father to buy it for me. á Later I heard that my uncle had wanted to offer me the bicycle on á my birthday two weeks later.
5	In a social situation I became interested in a woman. We talked, á we laughed, we enjoyed each other. She desappeared for a few á minutes, and a little after appeared with an other man.
0	One day I lent my tennis I just had washed to my sister because á she asked it. I asked her not to soil it as I had just washed it. á Next day I looked at the tennis, and it was dirty with wax. She á could not have soiled it. It was lack of consideration. I felt á very angry.
1	I didn't do very well on a midterm and I'm disgusted with myself á because I was prepared and thought I did well.
2	When I was the first to arrive at the scene after an accident, á and found that a close school friend had been killed.
2	When I am out in the dark and a suspicious looking character á comes towards me.
2	When I was in a car with my parents and friends and we had to á back up (reverse) pass a river which when I recall it (I was only á about 5 yrs) seemed we were going to fall in and drown.
2	After having slept for a short time I woke up - I had the feeling á of someone standing beside me and was very frightened. I had to á turn on the light turn on the light for several minutes before I á was able to get to sleep again.
4	Passing my driver's examination (after two failures).
2	When I broke the window pane of my next door neighbour's house.
6	After shouting at a friend.
3	I spread abroad an intimate secret.
4	When there was a possibility of getting on better in professional á life. I valorized very much this aspect. People showed me this á possibility, not the real fact (even because until now ...)
0	My younger brother destroyed and gave away some of the books that á I had intended to keep for as long as possible.
6	At primary school, when I vomited in front of others in the middle  á of a lesson.
6	Not doing well in the examn.
3	One day I went to see a movie without my parents permission.  It á was an adult movie and I was scared that my parents would not á allow me to see the movie.  However after coming home I felt very á guilty at what I had done.
0	Someone spread rumours about me.
3	When I copy someone else's problem set.
6	[ No response.]
6	It was my birthday and all the members of the group made me a á surprise in a public place at 10 p.m. giving me flowers and suvenirs.
4	Found out that me and my best friend are both chosen for the á English lectures.
2	When I saw a good male friend unexpectedly after a year, as I've á just returned from overseas. I was feeling tired, looking a mess, á and nervous.
2	Walking around the University at night by myself, having been á previously warned of rapes, etc.
1	"At a discussion a friend took a \faschistic view\"", what I had not á expected."""
0	At the hardware store, trying to convert Imperial to Metric á measurements, I made a mistake, and didn't buy enough tiles for á the bathroom. I was angry at myself, because I hope to be a Maths á teacher.
3	[ I have never felt this emotion.]
0	When one is unjustly accused of something one has not done.
4	When I was told that I could take a week off and go for a trip á with my friends.
5	When my boyfriend did not turn up in time as he promised he would á be coming.
1	Helping older people on the toilet.
3	I had been on friendship with a certain girl for sometime and the á love was going on well, but it happened that I made the á friendship come to an end suddenly without good reasons.
4	When an old schoolfriend phoned me to arrange an appointment to á talk about old memories. I hadn't seen him for 8 years.
1	When I nearly walked on a blindworm and then saw it crawl away.
3	"It happened when I still went to school: I got closer to a girl á but I considered it only as an \affair\"". Only much later I realized á how painful this must have been for the girl."""
5	Saw the village I come from still pay money to buy wife.
2	We were on the road in a car when a lorry bypassed us.  We had to á swerve and we almost got run over.
4	I felt joy when I red my name in the list of the approved in the á entrance college examination.
2	When I was nearly beaten up by the brother of my girlfriend.
0	Having agreed to share the taxi expenses, three people in the á back of the car just ran off, leaving the person up front with á the entire bill.
5	The passing away of my mum.
2	When the doctor told me that there was something wrong with my á eye and I had to undergo an operation.
1	Nothing.
5	My mother's death.
3	[ No response.]
6	An argument that grew out of an ordinary conversation with a á person very close to me, when we should have been having a good á time together.
2	I was afraid that I would fail an examination.
6	When I was in the 12th standard, I could not speak English.  One á day, while  talking with my relatives I used a wrong word and  á my cousin corrected me, believing that I did not know English.  I á really felt ashamed then.á 
6	Once when I said bad things concerning a friend.
5	I dreamt of my father's death while I was at secondary school.  I á was screaming at the top of my voice and was woken up by my á friend.  That day I was really sad.
0	Being hooted at when I was learning to drive.
1	I had to wash my grandmother because she did not get to the á bathroom on time.
0	This situation happened when my friend John ate my banana which I á kept in the cupboard.
0	A teacher at my former secondary school forced my darling to á marry him.  The girl tried to refuse but her parents would not á leave her alone.
6	I made a major mistake while learning how to use a computer programme á and the teacher criticized me.
1	When my friend, after a beer spree vomitted in my sitting room.
0	My friend and I were to attend a very important meeting and he á had promised to come and pick me up.  But he did not turn up and á I felt very angry at him.
3	I felt very guilty when a student, sitting in front of me in the á exam, asked me a few questions and I did not show him the answers, á  though I knew them.á 
1	We had friends to dinner and one of them threw a beer bottle in á the air, and it bounced on an expensive table and damaged the á table .The person did not apologise.
4	I met a certain lady at Mchesi and I proposed a word of love to á her and at the same time she accepted my proposal.
0	I was waiting to receive the participation on the profits and did á not receive it.
1	When I was a child I broke plates because I wasn't given food on á the grounds of coming home late.
6	A theft committed by me.
3	Losing my temper with my spouse.
4	When I was notified that I had been accepted as a Psychology á student.
0	My grandmother is a highly authoritative person, who lives alone, á is independent, but doesn't know to live without commanding the á others. I hate this!
3	I get irritated with my son when he screams or is sick all over á his clean clothes.
3	When I used an adjective for a person without knowing what it á meant.   When I got to know the meaning, I felt guilty as it was á a clear and unfair insult.
3	I've had three midterms in the past two weeks and I hardly á studied for any of them (like 1 or 2 days) I feel guilty that I á hadn't studied and I got C's on all of them.
3	I felt guilty after I battered to death a classmate of mine.
2	A certain night during initiation. 
6	Every time I do not write something well in English.
1	I was in a train when a woman started talking loudly and á attracting everybody's attention.  The worst thing was that she á was discussing something, about which she knew nothing, with another person.
0	Unfair and unjust attitude toward a person close to me, what I á was the witness of, caused anger in me.
0	A drummer who had borrowed my drums destroyed both the drumskin á and the sticks.  He did not repair them nor did he tell me about á it.
1	I am disgusted with the fact that bad singers play at the opera á (and not only there) only because they are protegTs or lovers of á an important felow while at the same time some young and able á singers work in a quite different field of life.
0	A friend of mine ridiculed me, telling me that I would never á accomplish anything. I felt that he had interfered with my life.
3	Thinking about other things in a lecture.
0	"In September 1984, I was forced to live with someone I did not á like.  The first week we were at loggerheads and our conversation á was like a debate.  The atmosphere was very bad.  When he learnt á that I had got 95 marks in a test he told me \ A failure, You lost á 5 marks.\""   I was very angry, not because my marks were lower á than his, but because I could not tolerate his pride.  I did not á show my discontentment and carried on doing my work."""
4	I felt joyful when I heard that I had been selected for College á education.
5	When my girlfriend was afraid and anxious the day before taking á her exam.
6	I was swimming in the river and I lost the top of my bikini.  I á did not notice it and came out of water.  There was a á disagreeable classmate watching the scene.
0	I had a date with a friend to see a movie and my friend was late. á  I waited for a long hour and was very angry.
4	When I saw the certificate results, I did not feel very happy as I á did not realize that I had got all the credits until my á classmates pointed it out to me.  My parents and my relatives á praised me and I realized that my results were good i.e 2A, 5B, á 2C.  I felt satisfied with the results and was happy.
4	After one year of searching, my friend and I have found a flat we á are able to pay for.
6	The day I learnt that my girlfriend had been going around with  a á close friend of mine.
1	Salo, a movie film by Pasolini. People were misused and tortured á for the fun of a few elder Italian authorities, during World War á II.
1	Saw a selfish person doing a selfish thing.
2	I work at a day care centre, and one day when the children were á outdoors a four-year old boy disappeared from the yard.  I was á not looking after them then, but as the manager it was me who was á responsible.
4	I was admited to the Chinese university of Hong Kong.  The day á the results were announced I looked in the newspaper and saw my á candidature number.
1	I feel disgust at my neighbour, because she comes to our house with á her child, who spoils our furniture.
0	When boyfriend lied to me.
3	A friend of mine said in a group that she felt lonely and á withdrawn from everyone because of mental deficiency.
5	When a friend, who has been with me at school, failed to make it á to UNZA.
3	[ Can not think of anything.]
3	While doing some calculation exercises, I neglected a part of it, á though I had marked it as done.  By chance, I was asked to á demonstrate this very part on the blackboard.
6	When my sister became pregnant at UNZA last year.
3	I caught a close relative with the servant of the house.
6	When I woke up after a night of drinking I couldn't remember and á discovered several untoward things had occurred.
4	Winning a race that I had been training for, for many weeks. á (Running Race).
3	I came home from a discotheque at half past four in the morning, á although I had promised my parents to come home at midnight. From á 3 a.m. I felt guilty towards my parents.
1	I was disgusted when my little sister had been hit badly by her á friends.
3	I had enough time to do my assignment, and I did not do it well.  á When the lecturer scolded me, I had this feeling.
2	Before an examn.
1	When my friend got very low marks in field work even though he á had worked throughout the year, I had this feeling.
0	I was once this week angry when soemone trying to compress my á mind due to his nonsense speech which himself could not tolerate á at all.
5	At the beginning of the year I moved to a new city - I felt sad á as I had to leave many friends and family members behind.
3	Describing to mother how a hole in the wall had appeared while I á was babysitting.
5	When I was younger I was very good in apparatus gymnastics. I á always won in competitions, but once I was only at the fourth á place.
4	When I won a position on the track-team for the trans-tasman á games when I was eleven.
1	Seeing a film in which there were several bloody crimes.
1	Someone had stolen an article from a library journal.
5	I missed the last tram home and had to walk in the pouring rain.
6	I told Mr Winter of Downtown Fashion to go to - when he did not á accept my Visa !
3	[ I have not felt this emotion.]
0	I was angered by a classmate who poured soup on to my clothes. He á was trying to use a short-cut method in getting his supper. á Coming behind my back, he wasn't noticed by me and as I was á retreating from a hungry congested people I knocked his plate á with my head. He didn't accept being wrong but blamed me for á pouring his soup.
2	While swimming, I hit my head at the bottom of the pool and á required stitches. I later learned that the consequences could á have been much more severe and that terrified me.
5	Whenever I read or think about the way people treat animals and á nature.
5	My father recently having a heart attack - spending a few months á in hospital.
1	When programmes on violence or pornography are shown on T.V.
5	When I had to move away from home to study, and I knew that I á would not be coming back home for a long time.
5	I asked a girl out on a date and she said no.
5	I had this feeling when my parents distroyed a relationship with á a boy because they thought he was bad and irresponsible.
1	When I was molested by an old drunk man.
4	A close married friend has just had his first child.
5	I don't know why suddenly I thought that what I was feeling for á my boyfriend was not really love. After almost three years being á together, this matter of fact shaked me and I felt a great sorrow á that I can call sadness.
4	Getting a letter from a friend who did not write for a long time.
0	Quarreling with classmates.
1	I was disgusted to see a person vomitting and I was told to clean á the place where the vomit was.
1	When a girl in my class (on the secondary school) appeased the á teacher, resulting in getting a higher grade. This occurred often á with her.
0	My mother carried on using mental pressure concerning something á which was serious and a real burden to me.
1	"No very strong such emotion. Treatment of my sister by her á dancing instructor - he is a \user\"", i.e., takes advantage of her á good nature."""
6	A young visitor to the house stole money from an elderly á visitor's purse. It wasn't noticed for some hours.
6	When relatives have acted strangely, and unfriendly towards me.
1	I don't remember about a situation when I have experienced this á feeling. Maybe it was when I saw a drunkard in the street.
5	[ When someone tells me something that hurts me, I feel bad about á it and also feel sad.]
